Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Grease a large 25 centimetres by 35 centimetres roasting tray with 1 teaspoon of olive oil.
Crack the eggs into a bowl and beat with a fork.
Layer the filo sheets into the tray, laying one sheet horizontally, and the next vertically, repeating as you layer, brushing a little of the egg between each sheet.
(Make sure they cover the base of the tray and go up the sides so it can contain the filling.)
Add a final brush to the last layer and scrunch up any excess pastry that hangs over.
Finely slice the spring onions and add to the bowl.
Coarsely grate the Cheddar cheese (reserving a little for the top) and the courgette, then add them to the bowl.
Break the broccoli into florets, then thinly slice and add to the bowl.
Season to perfection with sea salt and black pepper, then mix together.
Carefully pour the mixture into the prepared pastry case, spreading it out so it’s in an even layer, then sprinkle the remaining cheese over the top.Cook for 35 minutes, on the bottom of the oven, until the pastry is golden and the filling is set.
Place the flour in a large dough with a good pinch of sea salt.
Pour 325 millimetres of tepid water into a jug.
Add the yeast and mix with a fork for a couple of minutes, until dissolved.
Add a pinch of the flour and mix well, then pour the yeast mixture into the bowl.
Use a fork to mix it all together until you can’t move it anymore – this will stop the dough sticking to your hands.Now get your clean hands in there and bring it together as a ball of dough, kneading and moving it around the bowl until the dough comes away from the sides.Transfer the dough to a flour-dusted surface and keep it moving, kneading, pushing and stretching it for 5 minutes, or until you have a silky and elastic dough.Use your floured hands to shape the dough into a rough ball, put it in an oiled bowl, and cover with a clean, damp tea towel.
Allow it to prove for about an hour, or until doubled in size – ideally in a warm, draught-free place.Meanwhile, drizzle 1 tablespoon each of extra virgin olive oil and balsamic vinegar into a large bowl.
Tear in the basil leaves, then halve the tomatoes and finely slice the courgette, adding them to the bowl as you go.
Squash, destone and tear over the flesh of the olives and toss everything together gently with your hands.
Once the dough has doubled in size, knock the air out by punching it with your fist, then knead on a flour-dusted surface for 30 seconds, or until smooth.
Use a rolling pin to roll out the dough to about the size of a tea towel, then rub the red pesto all over the dough using your hands, spreading it out to the edges.
Scatter over the courgette mix evenly and tear over the mozzarella.
Roll up the dough lengthways, like a Swiss roll, wrapping all the lovely fillings inside, then with a sharp knife, cut into twelve chunks.
Place the pieces close together, swirl-side up, in an ovenproof pan (about 26cm) or on a snug, oiled baking tray, then cover with a clean tea towel.
Leave to prove again for 30 minutes to an hour, or until it has doubled in size.Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Bake on the bottom of the oven for about 35 minutes, or until golden and crispy.
Turn the loaf out onto a board and allow to cool slightly before serving.
Delicious!
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Put the tea bags into a jug, cover with 150 millimetres of boiling water and leave to steep for 3½ minutes.
Meanwhile, destone the dates and put into a food processor with the cinnamon and ginger, then finely grate in half the nutmeg.
Scoop out the tea bags and pour the tea over the dates, pushing them down so they’re submerged.
Leave them to soak with the lid on for 10 minutes.
Add the roasted pumpkin or squash, then blitz to a purée, stopping occasionally to scrape down the sides, which will help it along.Butter and lightly flour a 26 centimetres Bundt tin or a 20 centimetres by 30 centimetres baking dish.
In a large mixing bowl, cream the butter and sugars together using a wooden spoon.
Beat in the eggs, one by one then, using a large metal spoon, stir in the flour and fold in the puréed dates.
Pour the pudding mixture into your chosen receptacle, then bake for 45 to 50 minutes, or until an inserted skewer comes out clean.When your pudding is almost ready, make the sauce.
Cube the butter and melt in a small pan on a medium heat.
Add both the sugars, then, once nicely mixed, carefully add the rum (it may splatter) and double cream.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for around 5 minutes, or until a lovely deep golden colour.As soon as the pudding is out of the oven, if using a Bundt tin, flip out onto a platter and brush all over with enough sauce to form a delicate, crispy surface but also keep your sponge nice and bouncy.
Or, if you’re traybaking it in a dish, poke small holes in the top and pour over one-third of the sauce.
Sprinkle with a little sea salt for contrast, and serve with the remaining sauce on the side (or save for another day) and a little double cream, Greek yoghurt, ice cream or custard, if you like.
Start with the marinade.
Peel the garlic, and finely grate into a large bowl with the zest of 1 lemon.
Cut the peaches into quarters, removing the stones, and finely grate just one quarter into the mix.
Add all the remaining peach quarters, squeeze in most of the lemon juice (save a little for later), add 4 tablespoons of oil and the oregano.
Season with black pepper, and lightly toss together.Score both sides of each block of halloumi in a criss-cross fashion, going about ½cm deep, then cut each into 6 chunks and add to the peaches.Cut the bread into chunks about the same size as the halloumi, add to the bowl and toss it all together.Take a bit of pride in skewering everything up onto 4 long skewers, then cook on the barbecue, or in a griddle pan, until golden and beautifully charred.
Move to a serving platter.Tear off the top leafy half of the parsley and dress with the remaining lemon juice, a little oil and a pinch of salt, then scatter over the skewers.
Crush the pistachios in a pestle and mortar and sprinkle over the top, then drizzle with the honey to finish.
Place the pineapple rings (reserving the juice) in a large dry non-stick frying pan on a medium heat.
Cut the tofu into four chunks and add to the pan.
Let it all gently char for 4 minutes, then turn, char on the other side and remove, leaving the pan on the heat.
Deseed the peppers, chop into 2 centimetres chunks and place in the pan with ½ a tablespoon of olive oil, then reduce to a medium-low heat.
Trim the spring onions, chop the white halves into 2 centimetres lengths and add to the pan, reserving the green tops.
Peel, finely slice and add the garlic, then cook it all for 10 minutes, or until soft and charred, stirring regularly.
Meanwhile, finely slice the green halves of the spring onions.
In a heatproof bowl, cover the noodles with boiling kettle water.
In a pestle and mortar, pound the wasabi peas until fine.Mix the miso paste into the reserved pineapple juice, then pour into the pepper pan with a splash of water.
Let it sizzle for a minute, then return the tofu and pineapple to the pan to glaze.
Drain the noodles, divide between your plates and spoon over the sticky miso peppers, followed by the tofu and pineapple.
Sprinkle with the sliced green spring onion and crushed wasabi peas, then tuck right in.

Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Slice 3 aubergines into 2cm-thick rounds.
In a small bowl, mix 1 tablespoon each of olive oil and red wine vinegar, 1 heaped teaspoon of massaman paste and a small pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then brush on both sides of the sliced aubergines.
Arrange in a single layer in a large roasting tray and roast for 40 minutes.
Meanwhile, blacken the remaining 3 aubergines in a deep non-stick frying pan on a high heat, turning until charred and tender, then remove, leaving the pan on the heat.
While they blacken, crush the cashews in a pestle and mortar, then put aside.
Trim the spring onions, chop the white halves (reserving the greens) and place in the pestle and mortar with the remaining massaman paste.
Peel, chop and add the ginger, then pound into a paste.
Finely slice the green spring onions lengthways and put into a bowl of cold water to curl up.Halve the charred aubergines and scoop the insides into the hot pan with 1 tablespoon of oil, discarding the skins.
Stir in the paste for 2 minutes, then pour in the coconut milk, stock and 1 tablespoon of red wine vinegar, and bring to the boil.
Alongside, cook the noodles according to the packet instructions, then drain and divide between warm bowls.
Season the soup to perfection and ladle over the noodles, then top with the roasted aubergine slices.
Drain the curly spring onions and toss in a little red wine vinegar, then scatter over with the crushed cashews.
Pour the flour into a bowl, make a well in the middle, then add the yoghurt.
Use your clean hands to mix it together, until you have a dough.Wash and dry your hands, then dust your work surface and hands with flour.
Split the dough into 2 equal pieces.
Stretch the dough with your hands or roll it out with a rolling pin to about ½cm thick.Put a large non-stick frying pan on a medium-high heat – make sure you’ve got an adult around.Once the pan is hot, carefully add the dough to the dry pan and cook for 2 or 3 minutes, or until golden and puffed up.
Use tongs to turn the flatbreads over, and cook for the same time on the other side.
Remove the flatbreads from the pan and spread a little knob of butter on top, moving it about with the back of a spoon until it’s melted.
You can have your flatbreads simply with honey or jam, you can top them with eggs, or serve them with a curry.
You can do anything with them!
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Grease a couple of large baking trays with oil.
Tip the yoghurt into a large mixing bowl with the flours, bicarbonate of soda, honey, 1 egg and a large pinch of sea salt.
Stir with a fork until everything just comes together, then get in there with your hands and shape the dough into a ball.
Dust a clean surface with flour and flatten the dough into a large disc, roughly 2.5 centimetres thick.Stamp out 24 rounds with a 5 centimetres crinkle cutter, dipping the cutter in flour if the dough starts to stick, placing them on the oiled trays as you go.
Beat the remaining egg and use it to eggwash the scones, then sprinkle over the oats.
Bake in the centre of the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until puffed up and golden.
Cut or slice up the veg into fine or chunky pieces, depending on what you’re looking for.
I quite like purposely cutting each veg differently – some diced, some into erratic chunks, some sliced delicately and some more thickly.Place all the veg in a sterilised airtight jar, add 125 millimetres of water, along with the vinegar, salt, sugar and herbs and spices, if using.
Close the lid and give it a good shake.Keep in the fridge for up to 8 weeks, or you can absolutely use it right away – it will start off tasting quite sharp and crunchy, then relax into itself over a period of a few weeks.
This pickle is brilliant in sandwiches and salads, on a cheese board, or as a side to curries and stir-fries.
Mix the flour and honey in a large bowl, then stir in the sourdough starter to combine – the dough will be quite stiff, add 1 teaspoon of water to help bring it together, if needed.
Wrap the dough in a clean damp tea towel and leave to rest for 20 minutes.Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Line a large baking tray with greaseproof paper.
Divide the dough into two and work with one piece at a time, keeping the other piece covered.
Roll out the dough as thinly as you can, around 2mm thick.
You can either cut the dough into shapes, or keep it whole (as long as it fits on your tray).Place the dough on the lined tray and gently brush or spray with a little water.
Sprinkle with a little sea salt, and with sesame, fennel or caraway seeds, or a mixture, if you like.
Repeat with the other half of the dough.
Bake the crackers for 5 minutes, then flip them over and bake for another 8 to 10 minutes, or until crisp and brown all over.
Remove and cool on a wire rack, then tuck on in.
Delicious with cheese and chutney or fresh fruit like grapes or figs.
Store any leftovers in an airtight container.
Fill the cup with the flour and tip into a large bowl.
Fill the same cup with milk and pour that into the bowl too, then crack in the egg.
Whisk everything together until it’s nice and smooth.Place a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat.
Once hot, add a small knob of butter then, once the butter has melted and starts to sizzle, add large spoonfuls of batter to the pan – you’ll need to cook your pancakes in batches.Wait for little bubbles to form on the surface of the pancakes, about 1 to 2 minutes, then use a fish slice to flip them over to cook for another 1 to 2 minutes on the other side, or until golden again.Carefully wipe out the pan with a ball of kitchen paper, then add another small knob of butter and cook the next batch.
Serve the pancakes right away with your favourite toppings – I like a bit of fruit and a drizzle of honey.
Put the flour and 1 teaspoon of sea salt into a large bowl and make a well in the middle.
In a jug, mix the yeast into 300 millimetres of lukewarm water, then gradually pour it into the well, stirring and bringing in the flour from the outside to form a dough.
Knead on a flour-dusted surface for 10 minutes, or until smooth and springy.
Place back in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with a damp tea towel and leave to prove in a warm place for 1 hour, or until doubled in size.Meanwhile, destone the olives and peel the garlic (if using), and then pound with the sun-dried tomatoes into a rough paste in a pestle and mortar.
Add most of the basil leaves and a small pinch of salt, and bash again until you have a paste.
Finely grate in most of the Parmesan, add a big pinch of black pepper, then muddle in 4 tablespoons of olive oil.
On a lightly floured surface, divide the bread into 2 equal pieces, then roll and stretch out into 2 identical circles roughly about 28 centimetres wide.
(If you want to be super-neat you can cut around a dinner plate for a perfect circle shape.)
Place one of the circles on a lined baking sheet, then spread the olive paste all over the dough right to the edge, then tear over the mozzarella.
Cover with the other circle and press down lightly to seal.
 Position a jam jar, or something similar, in the centre, and then carefully make 12 evenly spaced cuts, starting from near the glass all the way out to the edge.
One by one, pick up each piece of bread and twist 3 times before laying neatly back down on the tray, poke in the remaining basil leaves in and around where you can, then cover lightly with a damp cloth and leave to prove again in a warm place for 1 hour or until doubled in size.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
When the bread is ready, finely grate over the remaining cheese and drizzle over a little olive oil, then gently place in the middle of the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden.
Leave to rest for 15 minutes before tucking in.
Place a large shallow casserole pan on a medium heat with 250 millimetres of water.
Prick the whole aubergines all over with a fork, halve lengthways and place in the pan.
Peel, quarter and add the onions, then cover with a lid and cook for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, peel and finely slice the garlic, and pick the sage leaves.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Remove the lid, and once most of the liquid has cooked away, make a well in the middle.
Add 3 tablespoons of oil, the garlic, chilli flakes and most of the sage leaves, then finely grate in the lemon zest.
Once golden, scrunch in the tomatoes, pour in 2 tins' worth of water, and simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.Remove the pan from the heat, grate in the cheeses, then season to absolute perfection with sea salt and black pepper.
Tear in the pasta sheets and mix up really well to coat and separate, then pull some of the sheets to the top to create a top layer.
Bash the almonds until fine and rub the remaining sage leaves with oil, then sprinkle on top.
Use the back of a spoon to create some dips and wells, and bake for 25 minutes, or until golden and bubbling.I love this served with a big crunchy green salad dressed with balsamic vinegar.
Soft-boil 4 eggs in a pan of boiling salted water on a medium high heat for 5 minutes exactly, then drain, cool under cold running water, and peel.
Tip the grains into a food processor with the curry paste, pick in the mint leaves, then whiz until fairly fine and tacky in texture, adding a splash of water, if needed.
Divide into 4 balls.
One at a time, pat out on a 15 centimetres square of greaseproof paper, to just under one centimetre thick.
Place the paper flat on your hand, put a peeled egg in the centre and mould the mixture up and around the egg to seal it inside, using the paper to help you.
As it comes together into a ball, remove it from the paper and press gently in your hands to create the perfect covering – patch up any holes as you go.
Place the flour in one bowl, beat the remaining egg in another, then whiz the naan to fine crumbs and tip into a third bowl.
Cover the coated eggs with flour, dip into the beaten egg and roll in the crumbs until well covered, then chill.When you’re ready to cook, just under half-fill a large sturdy pan with oil – the oil should be 8 centimetres deep, but never fill your pan more than half full – and place on a medium-high heat.
Use a thermometer to tell when it’s ready (170°C), or add a piece of potato and wait until it turns golden – that’s the sign that it’s ready to go.
Carefully lower the Scotch eggs into the pan using a slotted spoon and cook for 8 minutes, or until golden.
Scoop out and drain on kitchen paper.
Cut in half and serve seasoned lightly with sea salt and with mango chutney for dunking.Fantastic with salad for dinner, or serve up half as a starter or lighter bite.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Peel 1 onion, place in a food processor with the mushrooms, rye bread and 1 teaspoon of ground coriander, and whiz until fine.
Drain and pulse in the black beans, season lightly with sea salt and black pepper, then divide into 4 and shape into patties, roughly 2.5 centimetres thick.
Rub all over with oil and dust with ground coriander, then place on an oiled baking tray and roast for 25 minutes, or until dark and crispy, topping with the Cheddar and warming the rolls for the last few minutes.Meanwhile, peel and very finely chop the remaining onion with the tomatoes and place in a bowl.
Squeeze over the lime juice, add a few shakes of Tabasco and season to taste.
Destone, peel and finely slice the mango and avocado.Halve the warm rolls and divide the yoghurt between the bases, followed by half the salsa, the mango, avocado and coriander leaves.
Top with the burgers, remaining salsa and extra Tabasco, pop the lids on and press down lightly.Always nice with oven-roasted, skin-on chips.
Put the grapes on a griddle pan over a high heat and grill for 5 minutes, or until caramelised and starting to burst open, then place in a large salad bowl.
Trim and quarter the radicchio, then dismantle all the leaves.
Working in batches, grill, char and soften on both sides, then add to the bowl (this may feel like a very unusual process, but trust me, it’s delicious).Once you've grilled the radicchio, turn the heat off (we're going to use the pan to make a warm dressing).
Peel and finely slice the garlic, pick the rosemary leaves and place in the still-hot griddle pan with the pine nuts and 2 tablespoons of oil.
Keep everything moving for 1 minute, then add the balsamic vinegar (it'll sizzle and smell amazing!), and pour every last bit into the bowl along with the honey.
Toss and massage it all together, seasoning to absolute perfection with sea salt and black pepper.
Leave to sit for 10 minutes, then toss through the rocket.Great as a side salad, or shave over a little goat's cheese and serve with hot toast.
Peel and very finely slice the onion and garlic, deseed and finely slice the chillies, finely chop the coriander stalks, reserving the leaves, then place in a bowl.
Coarsely grate in the paneer and squash (deseed if needed), then peel and finely grate in the ginger.
Sprinkle in the flour and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then squeeze over the lime juice.
Add the curry paste and 50 millimetres of water, then mix.Drizzle 2 tablespoons of oil into a large non-stick frying pan over a medium-low heat, then roughly divide the mixture into 4 portions and place in the pan, flattening them out into rough rounds, about the width of the buns (don’t worry about wispy edges, it’ll mean bonus crunch later!).
Fry for 16 minutes, or until golden and cooked through, turning every few minutes.
Meanwhile, pound most of the coriander leaves to a paste in a pestle and mortar, muddle in the yoghurt, then season to taste.
Finely shred the lettuce, halve the burger buns (warm first, if you like), and puff up the dry poppadoms in the microwave for 30 seconds each.Divide the coriander yoghurt between the bases and inside bun-lids, then break up the poppadoms and sprinkle over.
Place a crispy bhaji burger on top of each bun-base, add a dollop of mango chutney, a few coriander leaves and the lettuce, then pop the tops on and press down lightly.Serve with a cold beer and extra fresh chilli if you love a bit of heat (like me!).
Pick most of the basil leaves into a pestle and mortar and bash to a paste with a pinch of sea salt.
Peel and bash in the garlic, then pound in the almonds until fine.
Muddle in 4 tablespoons of oil, finely grate in the Parmesan, then squeeze in the lemon juice.
Season to perfection, and tweak to your liking.Scrub and finely slice the potato, trim just the stalks off the beans, then place both in a pan of boiling salted water with the tagliatelle and cook according to the pasta packet instructions.
Prep the delicate summer veg as necessary, adding them to the pan for the last 3 minutes.
Drain, reserving a mugful of starchy cooking water, then toss with the pesto, loosening with a splash of reserved cooking water, if needed.
Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil, and finish with the remaining basil and a fine grating of Parmesan.
Nice served with a crunchy seasonal salad.
Cook the noodles according to the packet instructions, then drain and refresh under cold running water and toss with 1 teaspoon of sesame oil.
Lightly toast the peanuts in a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat until golden, then bash in a pestle and mortar until fine, and tip into a bowl.
Peel the garlic and bash to a paste with the tofu, add 1 teaspoon of sesame oil, 1 tablespoon of soy, the tamarind paste and chilli sauce, then squeeze and muddle in half the lime juice.Peel and finely slice the shallot, then place in the frying pan over a high heat.
Trim, prep and slice the crunchy veg, as necessary, then dry-fry for 4 minutes, or until lightly charred (to bring out a nutty, slightly smoky flavour).
Add the noodles, sauce, beansprouts, and a good splash of water, toss together over the heat for 1 minute, then divide between serving bowls.Wipe out the pan, crack in the eggs and cook to your liking in a little olive oil, sprinkling with a pinch of chilli flakes.
Trim the lettuce, click apart the leaves and place a few in each bowl.
Pop the eggs on top, pick over the herbs, and sprinkle with the nuts.
Serve with lime wedges for squeezing over, and extra soy, to taste.
Tear the mushrooms into a bowl, scatter over 15g of sea salt (most of this will drain away later) and scrunch together, then leave for 30 minutes, scrunching occasionally.
Tip the flour into a bowl with a pinch of salt, then chop and rub in the butter.
Make a well in the middle, slowly pour in 200 millimetres of cold water, then mix, pat and bring it together.
Wrap in clingfilm and chill in the fridge for 1 hour.After 30 minutes the mushrooms should feel quite soggy, so squeeze firmly to remove as much salty liquid as you can (the mushrooms should end up weighing around 400g).
Peel the swede, potatoes and onion and slice into small pieces, roughly the same size and thickness as a pound coin.
Mix the veg with the mushrooms, then add the rosemary and a few generous pinches of black pepper.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Divide the pastry into 8, then roll out into 20 centimetres rounds on a clean flour-dusted surface.
Divide up the filling, then scrunch and pile it to one side of the middle, leaving a 2.5 centimetres gap around the edges.
Lightly brush the exposed pastry with beaten egg, fold over and press the edges down, then twist and crimp with your fingers and thumbs to seal.
Eggwash, then place on a lined baking sheet and bake for 40 minutes, or until golden.Serve with a watercress and apple salad and a dollop of English mustard.
Cover the porcini with 500 millimetres of boiling water.
Peel and finely slice the onions and garlic.
Drizzle 2 tablespoons of oil into a large casserole pan over a medium-low heat, add the cinnamon and fry for 1 minute, then add the onion and garlic.
Pick in the oregano leaves, pour in the vinegar, then simmer with the lid on for 20 minutes, or until soft and lightly golden, stirring regularly.
Meanwhile, slice the aubergines lengthways one centimetre thick, then chargrill in batches on a griddle pan.Scrub the potatoes and slice one centimetre thick, then add to the casserole pan with just the porcini water, reserving the mushrooms.
Scrunch the tomatoes into the pan, then pour in 1 tin’s worth of water and leave to tick away on a medium heat for 30 minutes, stirring regularly.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Place the mushrooms in a blender with half the feta and the eggs.
Pour in the milk, finely grate in half the nutmeg, then whiz until smooth.
Season the tomato sauce to perfection with sea salt and black pepper, then spoon half into a 25 centimetres by 35 centimetres baking dish.
Cover with half the aubergines, drizzle over 4 tablespoons of creamy sauce, then repeat, finishing with the remaining creamy sauce.
Crumble over the rest of the feta, then bake for 40 minutes, or until golden and bubbling.Delicious served with a simple lemony dressed green salad.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Peel the onions and halve across the middle.
Place the butter in a 26 centimetres non-stick ovenproof frying pan on a medium heat.
Strip in the thyme leaves and add the bay, shake the pan around and get it bubbling, then add the sugar, vinegar and 100 millimetres of water.
Place the onion halves in the pan, cut side down.
Peel and halve the garlic cloves and place in the gaps, then season generously with sea salt and black pepper.
Cover, turn the heat down to low and leave to steam for 10 minutes to soften the onions slightly, then remove the lid and cook until – very importantly!
– the liquid starts to caramelise, gently shaking the pan occasionally to stop it from sticking.Place the pastry over the onions, using a wooden spoon to push it right into the edges of the pan.
Bake for 35 minutes, or until golden brown and puffed up (it will look quite dark, but don’t worry!).
Using oven gloves to protect your hands, pop a large plate over the pan and confidently but very carefully turn out.Delicious served with goat’s cheese, a simple salad and a cold beer.
With the tip of a knife, prick the tomatoes, removing the cores from any larger ones.
Carefully plunge them into fast-boiling water for 45 seconds, then drain and peel away the skin.
Cover the saffron with 100 millimetres of boiling water and leave to infuse.
Toast the almonds in a large non-stick frying pan over a medium heat until golden, then tip into a small bowl and place the pan back on the heat.Peel and very finely chop the garlic, ginger and chillies.
Drizzle 1 tablespoon of oil into the pan, then add the curry leaves, followed by all the spices.
Peel and quarter the onion, click apart into petals, then add to the pan with the garlic, ginger and chilli and fry for 3 minutes, stirring constantly.
Add the tomatoes, coconut milk and saffron water, then cover and simmer for 20 minutes, removing the lid and adding the mango chutney halfway.
Season to taste with sea salt and black pepper, then scatter over the almonds.
Serve with fluffy rice.
For the pickled shallots, toast the peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise and coriander seeds in a dry frying pan on a medium heat until fragrant.
Add 1 teaspoon of salt, 350 millimetres of water and 120 millimetres of vinegar, and bring to the boil.Peel and finely slice the shallots into rings and place in a heatproof bowl.
Using a sieve, strain over the pickling liquid, then leave to cool and let the flavours mingle (see tip).For the edamame dip, prick the jalapeños with a sharp knife and place them directly over a gas hob, turning with tongs until blistered all over.
Leave to cool a little before scraping off the black stuff with a knife, then halve and deseed.Peel the garlic and shallot, roughly slice the shallot and place in a food processor with the edamame, chillies, 40 millimetres of oil and 2 tablespoons of vinegar.
Blitz until super-smooth, adding a splash of water to loosen, if needed.
Have a taste and adjust with more vinegar, sea salt and black pepper.
Scrape into a bowl, cover and set aside.
For the dipping sauce, combine all the ingredients in a bowl with 240 millimetres each of vinegar and water and 1 teaspoon of fine salt.
Stir  until the sugar has dissolved.For the rice rolls, start by prepping the veg.
Scrub the carrots, then shave into long ribbons along with the cucumber.
Pick the chervil and tarragon, finely slice the grapes and the radishes.
Separate the lettuce leaves, wash and dry, then arrange everything, including the micro herbs and beansprouts, on a large platter ready for your guests to assemble.
Don’t forget you will need to soak the rice paper in water for about 40 seconds before making up your rolls.For the tempura, break the cauliflower into large florets.
Whisk the flour with 600 millimetres cold water until you have a smooth batter.Half-fill a large sturdy pan with about 2 litres of oil (or use a deep-fat fryer) and place on a medium to high heat.
Use a thermometer to get it to 180°C, or test with a cube of bread – if it floats and turns golden, you’ll be about right.
If the oil starts to smoke at any point, reduce the heat a little.Dip the cauliflower in the batter and fry for about 5 minutes, or until golden and crisp – you will need to do this in batches.
Remove with a slotted spoon to kitchen paper and season.
Get everyone seated and let your guests make up their own rolls with a bit of everything while you get on with frying the next batch.
To make the salad pickle, squeeze half the pomegranate juice into a large, shallow bowl.
Top it up with an equal amount of red wine vinegar, then drizzle over some extra virgin olive oil and give it all a good mix.
Peel and finely slice the red onion, finely slice the chillies (deseed if you like), matchstick the cucumber (I like to use a crinkle-cut knife) and shave the carrots into ribbons, then combine it all in the bowl.
Holding the remaining pomegranate half cut-side down, bash it with the back of a wooden spoon so the seeds tumble out over the salad.
Pick and tear over half the mint leaves, then gently toss and leave aside until needed.For the houmous, tip half the jar of chickpeas into a food processor and season with sea salt and black pepper.
Add the peanut butter and 2 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, peel and add the garlic, finely grate in half the lemon zest and squeeze in all the juice.
Whiz until super-smooth, then transfer to a shallow serving bowl.
Pick over a few parsley leaves and drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil.Spoon 2 tablespoons of the chickpeas into a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat with 1 tablespoon of olive oil.
Sprinkle over the paprika and dukkah, and cook for 5 minutes, or until the chickpeas are crisp, then tip over the houmous.For the falafel fritters, place the remaining chickpeas and mint leaves into the food processor, along with the peas and self-raising flour.
Quarter the preserved lemon, removing any pips, and pulse until combined.Drizzle 1 tablespoon of olive oil into a large frying pan over a medium heat, then dollop in heaped teaspoons of the falafel batter.
Fry for 4 minutes on each side, or until golden, sprinkling over the cumin seeds when you flip them.Now it’s time to bring everything together.
Warm the flatbreads in the oven for a few minutes and crush the pistachios (if using) in a pestle and mortar.
Put the soya yoghurt into a bowl and stir in a few dashes of chilli sauce.
Load up your flatbreads with a bit of everything, pick over the remaining parsley leaves, then roll up and tuck in!
Place the porcini in a small bowl and cover with boiling water.
Peel the onions, 2 cloves of garlic and the carrots, trim the celery and pick the rosemary leaves, then roughly chop.Place a large casserole pan on a medium-low heat with 1 tablespoon of oil.
Add the chopped vegetables, chilli flakes and bay, and cook for 15 minutes, or until golden and soft, stirring regularly.Remove the porcini from their soaking juices, finely chop and add to the pan.
Strain in the porcini soaking liquor.
 Add the wine, then turn up the heat and let it bubble away for a minute or two.
Add the lentils (juice and all) and tomatoes, along with 1 tin's worth of cold water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to low and simmer for 1 hour or until thick and delicious.To make the pasta, pile the flour into a large bowl, make a well in the middle and gradually add 200 millimetres of tepid water, mixing with a fork.
When it becomes too hard to mix, get in there with your hands and bring it together into a ball of dough.
Knead on a flour-dusted surface for 5 minutes or until smooth, then cover with clingfilm and leave to rest until you’re ready to roll it out.To make the white sauce, heat a large, deep frying pan over a medium heat with 4 tablespoons of oil.
Add the flour and stir well to coat, then gradually add the almond milk, stirring continuously.
Leave to bubble away for 5 minutes or  until thickened.Meanwhile, place a large non-stick frying pan on a high heat.
 Tear in the mushrooms and dry-fry for 3 to 5 minutes, or until charred and nutty.
Peel and finely slice the remaining garlic.
Add 1 tablespoon of olive oil to the mushroom pan, followed by the garlic.
Strip in the thyme leaves and cook for a further 2 minutes, them remove from the heat.Place a third of the cooked mushrooms into a liquidiser with the white sauce and blitz until smooth.
Have a taste and season to perfection.
Cut your pasta dough into 6 pieces.
One at a time, flatten each piece of dough by hand and roll it out to 2mm thick using a pasta machine (or a rolling pin), keeping the pieces long.
Place on a flour-dusted surface.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Whiz the sourdough in a food processor to coarse breadcrumbs.To assemble, line a 30 centimetres ovenproof frying pan with a large piece of oiled baking paper.
Line the base with pasta sheets until completely covered, leaving an overhang around the edge of the pan.
Trim the remaining pasta sheets for your layers.Layer up the lentil sauce, followed by the white sauce, a scattering of mushrooms and a couple of pasta sheets.
Repeat until all the elements are used up, saving your final layer of white sauce and mushrooms for the topping.
Bring up the overhanging pasta and let it fall over the filling until completely covered.
Add the remaining sauce and mushrooms, then sprinkle over the breadcrumbs, grate over the cheese and pick over the sage leaves.
Drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil.
Bake in the bottom of the oven for 50 minute to 1 hour until golden and bubbling.
Leave to stand for 15 to 20 minutes, then tuck in!
Delicious served with a simple salad.

Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Peel and finely slice the onions and place into a large mixing bowl.
Scrub the carrot and squash, then coarsely grate into the bowl, along with the paneer.
Peel the garlic and ginger and finely grate it into the bowl.
Finely chop the green chillies (deseed if you like) and half the coriander (stalks and all) and add to the mix.Tip in the flour, turmeric and cumin, season with sea salt and black pepper, then squeeze in the juice of 1 lime.
Add 100 millimetres of water, then get in there with clean hands and give it a good mix up.
Divide into 6, then shape and squash into 3cm-thick patties.Drizzle 1 tablespoon of oil into a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, add the patties and fry for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until golden and crisp – you may need to work in batches.
Remove to a baking tray and pop in the oven for 10 minutes, or until cooked through.
For the coriander yoghurt, pick the remaining coriander leaves into a pestle and mortar, setting aside a handful for garnish.
Add a pinch of salt, then bash to a paste.
Squeeze in the juice of half the remaining lime, then stir in the yoghurt.
Finely shred the lettuce, finely slice the red chilli (if using), halve the burger buns.To assemble, spoon a little coriander yoghurt over the base and inside lid of each burger bun.
Crumble the poppadoms and sprinkle over the yoghurt, then sit a patty on top of each base and spread with 1 tablespoon of mango chutney.
Top with a handful of lettuce, a few reserved coriander leaves and a sprinkling of red chilli, then place the bun lid on top.
Serve with the remaining lime cut into wedges for squeezing over.
Delicious!
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Cut off and discard the aubergine stalk, then slice lengthways in half.
Score a criss-cross pattern in the flesh of each half with a sharp knife.
Halve the lemon (if using) and rub it over the aubergine flesh – this will stop it discolouring.
Pour ½ a wine glass of water into a lidded pan on a medium-low heat.
Put the aubergine into the pan, , skin-side down, and pop the lid on.
Leave to steam for about 8 minutes, or until the pan is almost dry and the aubergine is starting to open up.Chop your tomatoes, halving or quartering the larger ones and leaving any small ones whole.
Pound the pistachios to a powder with a pestle and mortar to make a nutty crumb, leaving a few bigger chunks for texture.
Chop the coriander stalks, reserving the leaves for later.When the aubergine water has almost disappeared, add a little oil to the pan and push the aubergines flat with a spatula to crisp up the skin.Add the spice paste to one side of the pan, fry it off a little, then add the coriander stalks and tomatoes, gently turning to coat in the paste.
Turn the aubergine halves over and give the pan a little shake.
Scatter over the pistachios, then transfer to the oven, uncovered, for 20 to 25 minutes, or until bubbling and golden.
Serve scattered with the reserved coriander leaves.
Peel and finely slice the garlic and chilli (halve and deseed it first if you don’t want the sauce too hot).
Pick the basil leaves off the stalks and put to one side.
Finely chop the stalks.Cook the spaghetti in a large pan of boiling salted water according to packet instructions.
Meanwhile, put a large saucepan on a medium heat and add 2 good lugs of oil.
Add the garlic, chilli and basil stalks and give them a stir.When the garlic begins to brown slightly, add most of the basil leaves and scrunch in the tomatoes.
Turn the heat up high and stir for 1 minute.
Taste and season with sea salt and black pepper, if needed.Drain the spaghetti, reserving a mugful of cooking water, then transfer it to the pan of sauce and stir well.
Add a splash of pasta cooking water to loosen, if needed, then taste and season to perfection.Divide the pasta between bowls, or put it on the table in a large serving dish and let everyone help themselves.
Roughly tear over the remaining basil leaves and finely grate over the Parmesan.
Peel and trim all the vegetables, cutting the root veg into 2.5 centimetres dice.
Cook the veg in a large pan of boiling salted water for 10 minutes, or until they are all cooked through.
If you’re using swede or turnips, put them in about 5 minutes earlier than everything else as they take slightly longer to soften up.
If using kale, just blanch this for a few minutes right at the end.
Once all the veg is cooked, drain and leave to steam dry for a few minutes.Melt the butter and a lug of oil in a medium non-stick frying pan (roughly Put a medium non-stick frying pan (roughly 26cm–28cm) over a medium heat.Pick and chop the herb leaves, then add to the pan with the cooked vegetables.
Season well with sea salt and white pepper, then mash everything up in the pan.
Pat everything into a flat layer and cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until a lovely golden crust starts forming underneath.
Fold those crispy bits back into the mash, then pat and flatten down and repeat the process for about 15 or 20 minutes.
Concentrate on building up flavours, character and crispiness.Halfway through the cooking, flip it over using a fish slice, or like a pancake if you’re brave.
If it breaks don’t worry, just push it back together.
Let it crisp up on the underside then nick a bit and taste it.
This is the time to correct the seasoning.
Once you’re happy, serve it with a blob of HP sauce and whatever else you fancy.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Toast the pine nuts in a large ovenproof frying pan over a medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes, or until golden and smelling fantastic, tossing occasionally.Crack the eggs into a large mixing bowl, crumble in the feta, then grate in the Cheddar.
Season with a pinch of black pepper and a couple of pinches of dried oregano.
Finely grate in the lemon zest, drizzle in a little oil, then toss in the toasted pine nuts.
Mix well.Melt the butter in the frying pan over a medium heat with a drizzle of oil, add half the spinach, stirring until wilted, then when there’s space, add the remaining spinach, stirring regularly until wilted.Lay a 50 centimetres strip of greaseproof paper out on a clean work surface, rub lightly with oil and scrunch up, then flatten out again.
Arrange 4 sheets of filo in a large rectangle on the greaseproof paper, overlapping at the edges, so that it’s almost covering the greaseproof.
Rub the filo with a little oil, sprinkle with sea salt, pepper and a pinch of cayenne pepper.
Repeat until you have 3 layers.
Stir the wilted spinach into the egg mixture, then grate in half the nutmeg and mix well.Slide the greaseproof and filo into the empty frying pan, so that the edges spill over, then push down into the sides of the pan.Pour in the spinach mixture and spread out evenly, then fold the filo up over the filling to cover.Place the pan over a medium heat for 2 minutes, just to get the bottom cooking, then transfer to the top shelf of the oven for 18 to 20 minutes, or until golden and crisp.
Delicious served with a fresh seasonal salad.
Preheat the grill to high.
Trim the cauliflower, keeping aside any leaves, then halve through the core.
Slice each half into 3 chunky slices, then place into a large ovenproof pan (30cm), ideally in one layer.
Rub the rogan josh paste over the cauliflower, then season with sea salt and black pepper.
Tear the cauliflower leaves into the pan, then place over a medium heat on the hob.
Pour in 500 millimetres of water, so it’s just level with the cauliflower.
Peel the onion, cut into quarters and break apart into petals, then peel and finely slice the garlic, and place on top of the cauliflower.
Bring to the boil, then leave to bubble away for 10 minutes.
Transfer the pan to under the grill, roughly 5 centimetres from the heat, for 10 to 15 minutes, or until gnarly, charred and cooked through, turning halfway.
Meanwhile, cook the rice in a pan of boiling salted water according to the packet instruction with half a lemon thrown in, then drain.Remove the pips and any pith from the cooked lemon, then very finely chop the flesh and rind.
Pick the coriander leaves from 1 sprig and scatter over with a few pickled chillies (if using) and a splash of the pickling liquor, and finely chop and mix together.
Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil, then put aside until needed.Remove the cauliflower pan from under the grill, place over a medium heat, then pour in the coconut milk and bring to the boil, stirring gently to combine – try not to break up the cauliflower slices.One-by-one, puff up your dry poppadoms in the microwave for 30 seconds to 1 minute each.Pick the remaining coriander leaves and put aside, adding the stalks to a pestle and mortar with a pinch of salt and the chilli flakes.
Bash to a paste, then muddle in the yoghurt.
Sprinkle the coriander leaves over the curry, squeeze the juice of half a lemon into the rice, then serve with the poppadoms, coriander yoghurt and lemon pickle.
Cut the remaining lemon into wedges for squeezing over, then tuck in.
Cook the noodles according to the packet instructions, then drain and roughly chop.Trim and coarsely grate the carrot, then trim and finely slice the spring onions, and add to a bowl.Peel and finely chop the ginger, and finely chop the coriander (stalks and all), then add to the bowl with the drained noodles.
Mix together gently.Add a good pinch of sea salt, the five-spice, white pepper and flour, and gently fold together, adding 150 millimetres of water, continuing to gently fold and mix together – don’t overmix, or the balls will become dense.Half-fill a large sturdy pan with oil and gently bring up to 190ºC (or use a deep fryer).
Working in batches, carefully drop small balls (around 1 level tablespoon each) of the mixture into the hot oil – don’t worry about them being perfectly shaped.Cook for 4 to 5 minutes, or until golden and crisp, then drain on kitchen paper, separating with wooden chopsticks if they start to stick together.
Keep warm in a low oven while you cook the remaining batches, if needed.Serve with sweet chilli sauce for dipping.
Delicious served alongside Prawn dumplings as part of a dim sum selection.

Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
To make your filling, wash the squash, carefully cut it in half lengthways and remove the seeds, then chop into eight big chunks and place in a large roasting tray.
Add the whole ricotta, sprinkle over the chilli flakes and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then finely grate over half the nutmeg.
Drizzle with oil and gently toss together.
Roast for 1 hour.
Crumble up the chestnuts, pick the sage leaves, toss both in a little oil, then sprinkle into the tray.
Roast for another 15 minutes, or until the squash is tender and golden, and the ricotta is gnarly-looking.
Finely grate the Parmesan into the tray, season and mash it all together, as chunky or smooth as you like.
Leave to cool completely.Make the pasta dough in a food processor, blitzing the spinach and egg yolks together before adding the dry ingredients.
Wrap the dough in clingfilm and pop into the fridge for 30 minutes.Divide the pasta in half, saving one half for another day.
Cut the remaining piece in two (wrapping one piece back up momentarily), and roll out into sheets that are just 2mm thick – use a pasta machine, or do it by hand with a rolling pin.
Cut into rectangles 15 centimetres by 12cm.
Spoon 2 tablespoons of filling along the length of each one, near the bottom edge, leaving 1.5 centimetres at either end.
Brush the exposed pasta with a damp brush, then roll up and pinch in the sides to seal and create cracker shapes.
Repeat with the remaining pasta and filling to make 24 crackers in total.
Transfer to semolina-dusted greaseproof paper as you go.For the sauce, melt the butter in a large frying pan, then, once foamy and starting to darken, squeeze in the clementine juice and swirl to create a creamy butter sauce.
Season with pepper and keep warm over a very low heat until needed.Cook the pasta in a large pan of boiling salted water for 3 to 4 minutes, transferring it to the buttery sauce when cooked, with a splash of cooking water.
Work in batches (the first will happily sit in the sauce while you cook the rest).
Finish with a grating of nutmeg and Parmesan, and a scattering of toasted, crushed almonds.
Cook the pearl barley according to the packet instructions, then drain.Wash the squash, then carefully cut it in half lengthways and remove the seeds.
Peel the onions and garlic, and deseed the peppers.
Chop the squash, onions and peppers into one centimetre dice.
Finely chop the garlic with the coriander stalks (reserving the leaves).
Place it all in a pan on a medium-low heat with 2 tablespoons of oil, the chilli flakes, fennel and cumin seeds, and the ground coriander.
Sweat with a lid on for 25 to 30 minutes, or until soft but not coloured, stirring occasionally.Destone the dates and finely chop the flesh with the apricots and coriander leaves.
Fold into the veg pan with the drained pearl barley, squeeze in the lemon juice, season to perfection, then leave to cool.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Lay out two clean damp tea towels on a large work surface, side-by-side, with the longest edges facing you.
Working quickly but taking care, lay out 3 sheets of filo side-by-side with the short edges towards you, overlapping each one by 2.5 centimetres and brushing between the overlaps with water.
Lightly brush the sheets with oil, place 3 filo sheets directly on top, then repeat with another 3 sheets.
Save the remaining sheet for patching up.As evenly as possible, spoon your filling in a line along the long edge closest to you.
Brush the opposite long edge with a little oil.
Now, I’d recommend finding a friend to help you roll it up.
Working slowly and carefully, use the tea towels to help you roll it up and away from you into a giant cigar, keeping it on the damp tea towel at all times.
Roll it into a large pinwheel, working quickly but handling it gently to avoid too many cracks.
Gently slide it onto a large greased baking tray, and patch up any gaps, if needed.
Brush all over with more oil and bake for 45 to 50 minutes, or until gorgeous, crisp and golden.
Ten minutes before the end, smash and sprinkle over the pistachios and an extra pinch of each of the spices, if you like.
Serve with a super-light dusting of icing sugar.
Delicious with all the usual trimmings, or served with a spiced tomato sauce.
Put a 26 centimetres non-stick frying pan on a high heat and pour in 250 millimetres of water.
Halve the aubergine lengthways, quickly slash the flesh side of each half a few times and place skin side up in the pan, then season with sea salt and black pepper.
Cover and cook for 10 minutes, or until it boils dry and begins to sizzle (listen for the change in sound).
Meanwhile, trim the spring onions.
Cut the whites into 3 centimetres lengths at an angle and put aside.
Deseed the chilli and finely slice lengthways with the green part of the spring onions.
Place both in a bowl of ice-cold water and put aside to crisp up.When the aubergine starts to sizzle, add 1 tablespoon of olive oil, the white spring onion and the peanuts to the pan, stirring regularly.
After 2 minutes, add a splash of water, drizzle in the teriyaki and reduce to a medium heat.
Turn the aubergine, jiggle the pan and let it get sticky for a few minutes, then dish up, sprinkled with the drained green spring onion and chilli.
Peel and very finely chop the red onion, place in a bowl, cover with 4 tablespoons of red wine vinegar and add a very good pinch of sea salt.
Lower the eggs into a pan of vigorously simmering water and boil for 5½ minutes exactly.
Line up the asparagus, trim off the woody ends, and place in a colander above the eggs, covered, to steam while the eggs cook.
Meanwhile, pick the tarragon leaves.In a bowl, whisk the mustard with 6 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, adding it gradually, then pour in the soaking vinegar from the onion through a sieve, whisking constantly.
Taste and season to perfection with black pepper.When the time’s up on the eggs, divide the asparagus between your plates.
Refresh the eggs under cold water until cool enough to handle, then peel, halve and plate up, sprinkled with the tarragon leaves and onion.
Drizzle each plate with 1 tablespoon of dressing (save the rest for another day), season from a height with a pinch of pepper, and dig in.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Halve any larger new potatoes.
Trim the fennel, pick and reserve any leafy tops, finely slice the stalky part, then halve the bulb and cut into one centimetre slices.
Put it all into a 30 centimetres by 35 centimetres roasting tray, halve the artichokes and add with 2 tablespoons of oil from their jar, as well as a really good pinch of black pepper, then toss it all together.
Pour in 300 millimetres of water, cover the tray tightly with tin foil, and bake for 1 hour.In a bowl, finely grate half the Parmesan into the cream and loosen with a splash of water.
When the time’s up, remove the tray from the oven, discard the foil, spoon over the cream mixture and finely grate over the remaining Parmesan. Bake for a final 20 minutes, or until golden and cooked through, then sprinkle over any reserved fennel tops before serving.
To make a quick chilli oil, halve and deseed the chillies.
Fill a clean heatproof jar with olive oil, then pour it into a non-stick frying pan on a medium-low heat and add the chillies to confit.
Meanwhile, put a pan of boiling salted water on for the pasta.
Halve the aubergines lengthways and blanch in the water, covered, for 5 minutes, then lift out, leaving the water on the boil.
Carefully scoop the soft chillies into the jar, then spoon in the oil, leaving 2 tablespoons in the pan (keep the jar of chilli oil to add a kick to future meals).
Chop the aubergine into 3 centimetres chunks, add to the pan with a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then turn the heat up to high, stirring regularly.Cook the pasta according to the packet instructions while you peel and finely slice the garlic, then fry with the aubergine for 2 minutes.
Pour in the tomatoes, breaking them up with a wooden spoon, and half a tin’s worth of water.
Add as many of the chillies as you dare to the sauce and simmer until the pasta is ready, then taste and season to perfection.
Drain the pasta, reserving a mugful of cooking water, then toss the pasta through the sauce, loosening with a little reserved cooking water, if needed.
Dish up.
Put the shallots in a bowl and cover with hot water (this makes them easy to peel).
Place the dried porcini in another bowl and cover with 150 millimetres of boiling water, then set aside.
Roughly chop the portobello mushrooms and halve any larger shiitake and chestnut mushrooms, leaving the small ones whole.
Heat half of the butter with 1 tablespoon oil in a casserole pan over a medium heat.
Fry the mushrooms in batches, until coloured but still firm, adding another tablespoon of oil between each batch.
Tip the mushrooms into a bowl and set aside.Heat the remaining butter in the pan, peel the shallots, halving any larger ones, peel and cut the carrots into 2 centimetres slices and fry for 8 minutes, or until the veg gets some colour, stirring occasionally.
Peel and chop the garlic and add for the final 2 minutes.Add the thyme, bay and wine.
Strain in the porcini liquid into the pan, roughly chop the porcini and add to the pan along with the tomato purée, then simmer for 25 minutes, or until the wine has reduced slightly and the veg are cooked through.
Season to taste and fish out the thyme stalks and bay leaves.
Stir the cooked mushrooms into the sauce along with any juices, heating through for a couple of minutes.
Season and serve.
Nice with some creamy mash on the side.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Scrub the root veg and cut into bite-sized pieces along with the peppers, discarding the seeds.
Cut the broccoli or cauliflower into florets.
Spread the veg out in a large roasting tray, drizzle with 3 tablespoons of oil, season with sea salt and black pepper and toss well to coat.
Roast for 20 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender and coloured.
Cut the halloumi into 2 centimetres pieces and scatter over the veg.
Switch the oven to grill, increase the temperature and grill for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the cheese is soft and golden.Spiralise the courgette (or other chosen vegetables), then core and finely slice the apple.
Combine the apple with the roasted veggies, then stir through the courgetti and spinach.
Mix the pesto with 2 tablespoons of oil and drizzle over to serve.
Slice the cucumber into thin rounds and place in a bowl.
Add 1 large pinch each of sea salt and sugar, 2 tablespoons of the rice vinegar, and massage it into the cucumber.
Place a dish on top inside the bowl and weigh it down with something heavy.
Set aside to allow the excess water to drain out.Rinse the rice well, until the water runs almost clear.
Drain and place in a small saucepan along with 375 millimetres of water.
Pop a glass lid on, bring to the boil, then cook over a low heat for 25 minutes, or until you can see holes in the surface of the rice (don’t be tempted to lift the lid).
Take off the heat and leave, covered, for 20 minutes.
Fold 4 tablespoons of rice vinegar, the tablespoons of sugar and 1 pinch of salt into the rice.
Set the grill to high.
Quarter the aubergine lengthways and score the flesh.
Place flesh-side up on a foil-lined baking tray and grill for 15 minutes, or until almost tender.
Mix the miso and mirin with the remaining tablespoon of rice vinegar and 1 tablespoon of water.
Brush half the glaze over the aubergine; grill for a further 8 to 10 minutes, brushing with the remaining glaze halfway, until tender.
Meanwhile, toast the sesame seeds (if using) in a dry frying pan until golden.Place the aubergine on a bed of sticky rice.
Trim and finely slice the spring onions, scatter over the aubergine with the sesame seeds (if using) and serve with cucumber pickle on the side.
Place the spinach in a saucepan with a few tablespoons of water and cook over a medium heat for a few minutes, or until defrosted (if using frozen) and just cooked.
Take off the heat and leave to cool.Peel and crush the garlic and mix with the yoghurt, ¾ of a teaspoon of sea salt and a generous grind of black pepper.
Stir in the cooled spinach.Heat 1 tablespoon of sunflower oil in a small pan and fry the raisins for 1 to 2 minutes, or until starting to plump up.
Scatter over the spinach and finish with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil just before serving.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Cover the dried porcini with boiling water and leave to rehydrate.Halve the squash, then scoop out and wash the seeds.
Drain and pat dry, then, on a tray, toss with a drizzle of oil, the fennel seeds, and a pinch each of chilli flakes, sea salt and black pepper.Chop each squash into 8 chunky wedges, then toss on a large tray with a little oil, salt, pepper and another good pinch of chilli flakes.
Roast the squash for 1 hour, or until golden, adding the tray of seeds for the last 30 minutes.For the ragù, peel the onions, carrots and celery, then chop it all into one centimetre dice and place in a large casserole pan with 2 tablespoons of oil.
Cook on a medium heat for 20 minutes, or until softened, stirring occasionally.Saving a sprig each of rosemary and thyme, tie the rest of the woody herbs together with string.
Add to the pan for a few minutes, then pour in the wine and leave to cook away.
Scrunch in the tomatoes through your clean hands, then pour in 2 tins’ worth of water.
Leave to tick away for 30 minutes, then drain and add the beans.
Cook for a further 30 minutes, or until thickened and reduced, stirring and mashing occasionally, adding splashes of water to loosen, if needed.
Season to perfection.Meanwhile, prick the whole aubergine all over with a fork, then place directly over a flame on the hob, turning regularly with tongs until softened and blackened all over.
Place in a bowl, cover with clingfilm and leave for 5 minutes.
When the time’s up, remove the clingfilm, pour the juices into the pan, then halve the aubergine lengthways, scrape out all the flesh, and stir into the pan.For the white sauce, peel and finely slice the garlic, and clean and finely slice the mushrooms.
Pick and finely chop the reserved rosemary and thyme.Place a saucepan on a medium heat with 2 tablespoons of oil, add the garlic for 1 minute, then add the herbs, mushrooms and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Cook until lightly golden, stirring regularly.Add the porcini and soaking liquor (discarding just the last gritty bit), leave to bubble and cook away, then turn the heat down to low, stir in the crème fraîche and cook gently for a few minutes.
Remove from the heat, then finely grate and stir in half the hard cheese.To assemble, remove the herbs from the ragù, finely grate and stir in the remaining hard cheese, then generously spoon 2 ladlefuls into the bottom of a 25 centimetres by 30 centimetres lasagne dish.
Drizzle over 2 tablespoons of white sauce, tear over a quarter of the squash, scatter over a handful of spinach, and top with a layer of pasta.Repeat 3 further times, finishing with the remaining creamy sauce.
Loosen the edges with a spatula to push some of the sauce down the sides, then grate over the Cheddar.
Halve the tomatoes, quickly toss in oil, and dot over the top, then bake for 45 minutes, or until golden and bubbling.Leave to stand uncovered for 30 minutes while you make the pesto.
Rip the top leafy half of the herbs into a food processor.
Break in the hard cheese, peel, finely slice and add the garlic and tip in your chosen nuts.
Add a pinch of salt and pepper and whiz until very finely chopped, then stir through 8 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and the lemon juice.
Have a taste and tweak to your liking (this makes more than you need, so freeze any leftovers for tasty meals on other days).Serve the lasagne with a dollop of the pesto and a scattering of crispy seeds.
Good with a fresh, seasonal salad.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil over a medium-high heat.
Wash and trim the sprouts, then add to the pan and parboil for 3 minutes.
Drain in a colander and set aside to dry.
Toast the cumin and coriander seeds in a small frying pan over a medium heat for 3 minutes, or until fragrant.
Using a pestle and mortar, finely grind the toasted seeds with a pinch of sea salt.
Tip most of the spice mix into a large roasting tray and toss in the sprouts.
Peel and slice the onions, then trim and slice the fennel.
Tip into the tray along with a glug of oil.
Spread everything in an even layer – you may need two trays – and cook for 20 minutes, until tender and starting to caramelise.
Meanwhile, return your frying pan to the heat and toast the sesame seeds and hazelnuts for 3 minutes, then grind up with the remaining spices, using a pestle and mortar.
Combine the yoghurt with the tahini.
Peel and crush the garlic and stir through, then finely grate in half the lemon zest and squeeze in half the juice (save the rest for another day).Taste the yoghurt and season well, then spread it evenly over the base of a large serving platter and sprinkle some sumac over the top.
Spoon the sprout mix on top of the yoghurt mixture, scraping up the lovely crispy bits in the pan.
Sprinkle the ground nuts and seeds over the top.Pick and finely chop the herb leaves, discarding the stalks.
Scatter the leaves across the plate, then serve.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Cut the pumpkin or squash tops off about a quarter of the way down.
Next, using a sturdy spoon, hollow out the centres, removing the seeds, and discard.
Rub the pumpkins all over with oil and season the insides generously with sea salt and black pepper.
Nestle into a roasting tin that’s large enough to hold all six, tucking the tops in wherever they will fit.
Put a bay leaf into each hollow and roast for 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until soft.
Meanwhile, rinse and drain the rice, tip into a pan and cover with plenty of water.
Bring to the boil and simmer briskly for about 30 minutes or until just tender.
Drain well and put to one side.
While the rice cooks, peel, halve and slice the onions.Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a frying pan over a medium heat, add the onion and a large pinch of salt, then cook for 15 to 20 minutes, or until soft.
Roughly chop the chestnuts, then pick and finely chop the rosemary leaves.
Add both to the softened onions.
Reduce the heat slightly, and continue to cook for about 10 minutes, stirring whenever the onions begin to catch.
Chop up the Dolcelatte, then stir into the onions along with the cooked wild rice and dried sour cherries.
Season well.
Divide this mixture between the roasted pumpkins, removing the bay leaves first.
Return to the oven for 5 minutes, to warm everything through.
Delicious served with peppery salad leaves.
Preheat the grill to full whack and place a large tray on a shelf close to the heat.
Trim the courgettes and aubergine, slice lengthways into ½ cm pieces, then place in a bowl.
Sprinkle generously with sea salt and toss, then put aside.Pick the basil leaves, set aside and finely chop the stalks.
Peel and finely chop the garlic.
Heat ½ tablespoon of olive oil in a medium saucepan over a medium heat, add the garlic and basil stalks, then fry gently for 2 minutes before adding half the tomatoes (save the rest of another day) and the same volume of water.
 Cook for 10 minutes, or until it reaches a saucy consistency.Meanwhile, rinse the courgette and aubergine, then pat dry with kitchen roll.
Tip back into a bowl and toss with 1 ½ tablespoons of olive oil, and a good pinch of seasoning.Spread the courgette and aubergine on the hot tray and slide under the heat (you may need to do this in batches, as you want the veg in one layer).
Grill for 5 minutes, or until browned, then flip the veg grill for a further 5 minutes.
Keep an eye on the veg as it grills, then tip into a bowl.
Taste and season the sauce, then pour over the vegetables.
Tear over the basil leaves and mix.
Spread evenly on the tray and tear over the mozzarella.
Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grate over the Parmesan, then slide back under the grill.
Grill until the cheese has melted.Meanwhile, squeeze half the lemon juice into a bowl, add 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil and pinch of seasoning.
Mix well, then toss through the rocket.
When the parmigiana is bubbling and delicious, divide between plates and serve with the rocket.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Wash the squash, carefully cut it in half lengthways, then remove and reserve the seeds.
Use a spoon to score and scoop some flesh out, making a gully for the stuffing all along the length of the squash.
Finely chop the scooped-out flesh with the seeds and put into a frying pan on a medium heat with 2 tablespoons of oil.Peel, finely chop and add the onion and garlic, stirring regularly while you pick the sage leaves and finely chop them with the sun-dried tomatoes and chestnuts.
Stir into the pan with the rice, cranberries and allspice, add a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper and a swig of red wine, and mix well.
Fry for 10 minutes, or until softened, stirring occasionally.Pack the mixture tightly into the gully in the two squash halves, then press the halves firmly back together.
Rub the skin of the squash with a little oil, salt and pepper, and if you’ve got them, pat on any extra herb leaves you have to hand.
Place the squash in the centre of a double layer of tin foil, then tightly wrap it up.
Bake for around 2 hours, or until soft and cooked through.Once ready, take the squash to the table and open up the foil in front of everyone, then carve into nice thick slices and serve with all the usual trimmings.
Peel the onion, finely slice into rounds and place in a small bowl with the balsamic and a pinch of sea salt.
Set aside.Halve, deseed and finely chop the chilli.
Trim and finely chop the spring onions.
Place both in a mixing bowl.
Drain the beans and pat dry with kitchen paper.
Add to the bowl, along with the breadcrumbs.Season, then scrunch the bean mixture together with clean hands.
Divide into 3 balls, flatten into patties and place 2 in the fridge to chill for 10 minutes (wrap and freeze the spare for another day).
In a small bowl, combine half the lemon juice, 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil and the yoghurt.
Season well.
Trim the kale and mix into the dressing with the rocket.
Put aside.Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a non-stick pan over a medium heat.
When the pan is hot, fry the burgers for 4 minutes on each side, or until golden.
If they colour too quickly, reduce the heat.Slice the tomato and mozzarella into rounds and open the buns.
When the burgers are almost cooked, top each one with mozzarella.
Cover the burgers with a lid for 2 minutes to melt the cheese.Set another pan over a high heat and warm the bun halves, cut-side down, for 2 minutes or until toasted.Lift the onions out of the balsamic with a fork.Pop slices of tomato on each bun base, and a burger on top.
Top with the balsamic onions and the bun lid.
Serve the kale salad alongside.
Fill a deep pan with salted water and bring to the boil over a high heat.Place a small frying pan on a medium heat and sprinkle in the almonds.
Toast until golden, then tip into a bowl.
Peel the garlic, finely grate into a bowl, add a pinch of sea salt and mix to a paste.Place almonds into a plastic bag, crush with the bottom of a pan, then add to the garlic.Pick and very finely chop the basil, and stir into the garlic and almonds with 2 tablespoons of oil.
Season with salt and black pepper, then finely grate in half the pecorino.Halve the tomatoes and add to the pesto.
Crush with your hands until they are mixed together.Trim the beans and add to boiling water for 4 minutes, or until tender.
Lift out of pan and chop into 3 centimetres lengths.
Put aside.Add the gnocchi to the boiling water and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until they float.
Drain, reserving a mugful of cooking water, then tip back into the warm pan along with the pesto and beans.
Put the pan over low heat and stir gently, loosening with cooking water, until everything is hot and the gnocchi is coated with pesto.Measure 1 tablespoon of oil into a bowl, season, and squeeze in lemon juice to taste.
Add the rocket, then toss to cover.Divide the gnocchi between plates, scatter with rocket and grate over the remaining pecorino.
Start by making your filling.
Blanch the spinach in a pan of boiling water for 3 to 4 minutes, or until wilted.
Drain in a colander, squeeze out any excess water, then blitz in a food processor until roughly puréed.
Set aside.
Cut the paneer into 1.5 centimetres cubes.
Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a wide non-stick frying pan, then stir-fry the paneer for 2 to 3 minutes, or until lightly golden.
Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.
Peel and thinly slice the onion, then peel and finely grate the garlic and ginger.
Put to one side.Heat 2 more tablespoons of oil in the same frying pan.
Add the black mustard seeds and cumin seeds and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until they begin to become fragrant, then add the onion and fry over a low heat for about 5 to 6 minutes, or until softened.
Add the grated ginger, garlic and curry powder to the pan and continue to cook for a further minute or so.
Then, stir in the spinach and cook over a medium heat for another 3 to 4 minutes.
Add the paneer and cream.
Cook, stirring, for 2 to 3 minutes, or until piping hot.
Squeeze in half the lemon juice, then taste and season, adding more lemon juice, if you like.
Put to one side and keep warm.
To make the pancakes, place the flour in a large bowl and season with sea salt.
Make a well in the centre and add the eggs and half of the milk.
Melt the butter in a medium non-stick frying pan (roughly 20cm).
Allow to cool a little, then add to the batter along with the remaining milk.
Whisk everything until smooth.Trim and finely slice the spring onions and chillies (deseeding if you like), then pick and finely chop the herb leaves.
Stir it all into the batter, along with the cumin seeds and turmeric until well combined.
Leave the batter to rest for at least 15 minutes.
Lightly grease the frying pan with oil and place over a medium heat.
Once the pan is hot, add a ladleful of batter, turning the pan so it evenly and thinly coats the base.
Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, until set and lightly golden.
Flip over with a spatula and cook the other side for another minute, until golden.
Slip the pancake onto a warm plate and keep covered with a clean tea towel while you make the rest of the pancakes.
You should have 8 in total.
When you’re ready to serve, place large spoonfuls of the spinach and paneer mixture in the middle of each pancake and fold into triangles or roll up to enclose the filling.
Drizzle with a little yoghurt and scatter over some chopped coriander and diced red chilli (if using).
You could also serve the stack of pancakes with all the accoutrements on the table and just let everyone help themselves.
Place the rice into a medium pan, cover with cold water, then place over a medium heat.
Bring to the boil, then simmer gently for 12 to 15 minutes, or until just cooked.
Drain in a sieve, then place the sieve over the warm pan.
Season with a little sea salt and black pepper, cover with a lid and set aside off the heat.
Meanwhile, fill a small pan with water, place over a medium heat and bring to the boil.
Peel and chop the sweet potato into chunks, then add to the pan when the water is boiling.
Cook with the lid on for 5 minutes, or until tender.
Drain and set aside.
Peel the onions and cut into wedges.
Separate each wedge into petals, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Halve, deseed and roughly dice the pepper, then trim and halve the courgette, roughly slicing it at an angle.
Drizzle 1 tablespoon of olive oil into a large pan over a medium-high heat, add the sweet potato, onions, peppers and courgette, cooking for 8 minutes, or until softened but charred and gnarly on the outside.
Drain the beans, but reserve the juice.
Add the beans to the hot pan (save the rest for another day) and cook for 1 more minute.
Stir through, then add the garlic, ground coriander, and paprika.
Season well with salt and pepper and cook for 3 minutes, or until sticky and gnarly.
Finely slice the coriander (stalks and all).
Roughly chop the tomatoes.
Add to the pan with their juices, along with the coriander stalks, the reserved liquid from the beans and 275 millimetres of water.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the veg is soft and the sauce has thickened.
Add an extra splash of water to loosen if the sauce gets too thick.Season the veggie feijoada to taste and stir through most of the coriander leaves.
Serve with the rice, a dollop of yogurt and the reserved coriander scattered on top.
Preheat the oven to 200°c/gas mark 6, fill a small pan with salted water and bring to the boil over a high heat.Cut the broccoli into small florets.
Peel and trim the stalk, ginger and garlic, then finely slice.
Remove the core and seeds from the pepper and finely slice.
Trim the spring onions and roughly slice, separating the green and white parts.
 Toss the pepper and broccoli in 1 ½ tablespoons of oil in a small roasting tray, and season well.
Roast in the hot oven for 20 minutes, or until charred.Meanwhile, add the rice to the pan cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until just tender.
Drain, then spread out on a plate to cool.
Peel the carrots, halve lengthways and finely slice at an angle.
Squeeze the lime juice into a bowl and mix in half the soy.
In another bowl, crack the egg and mix with the remaining soy.Check your veggies in the oven, drizzle over the honey and roast for 5 minutes more.
Remove and put to one side.Place a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, scatter in the peanuts and toast, then tip onto a board.
Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in the hot pan and turn the heat up to high.
Add the green part of the spring onions and the rice, stir-frying until the rice is broken up and hot.
Pour the egg into one side of the pan.
Lightly scramble, then fold into the rice.
Tip onto a plate and season.Wipe the pan with kitchen paper and return to the heat with 1 tablespoon of oil.
Add the carrot and broccoli stalk and stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, then add the garlic, ginger and white part of the spring onions and cook for 2 more minutes before adding the roasted veggies.Add the lime mixture, toss well and add a splash of water if necessary.
Taste and season to perfection.Roughly chop the toasted peanuts and sprinkle on top, serving the eggy rice on the side.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Roughly chop some of the mushrooms, keeping the smaller ones whole and tearing up the rest.
Tip into a large casserole dish and toast on the hob over a medium heat for 5 to 8 minutes, until nutty and really golden.
Meanwhile, peel and finely slice the garlic, ginger and onion.
Trim and finely slice the chilli, then roughly chop the tomatoes.
Add all of it to the pan except the tomatoes, then add 1 tablespoon of oil and the spices.
Toss for 2 minutes, or until the spices are toasted and it’s smelling lovely, stirring continuously.
Add the tomatoes, mango chutney and coconut milk, stir to combine and season well with sea salt and black pepper.Top with bits of the paneer and place in the oven.
Cook for 30 minutes, or until all cooked through and gnarly.
Meanwhile, cook the rice according to the packet instructions.Taste and season as required, adding a little lime juice if needed.
Spoon the curry over the rice, then roughly chop the coriander leaves and scatter over the top.
Cut the remaining lime into wedges for people to squeeze over the top.
Fill a large pan with salted water, place on a high heat and bring to the boil.
Meanwhile, peel and finely slice the garlic and onion, then halve, deseed and finely slice the chilli.
Pick the thyme leaves.
Trim and slice three-quarters of the mushrooms.
Trim the cauliflower, remove and discard the leaves, then chop the cauliflower florets and stalk into small chunks.
Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a wide saucepan on a medium heat, add the garlic, onion, chilli and thyme, then cook gently for 10 minutes, or until golden.
Add the sliced mushrooms and cauliflower, cover with a lid and cook gently for about 10 minutes, or until softened.Meanwhile, add the pasta to the boiling water and cook for 10 to 12 minutes, or until al dente – this means it’s cooked, but still has a bit of bite.Meanwhile, pick and finely chop the parsley leaves.
Trim and very finely slice the remaining mushrooms.Once softened, mash the cauliflower mixture with a fork until broken down, but still with a bit of texture.
Stir in the ricotta, then season to taste with sea salt, black pepper and the juice from half the lemon.Reserving a cupful of the cooking water, drain the pasta and return it to the pan, off the heat.
Tip in the sauce and stir well, adding splashes of the cooking water to loosen, if needed.
Taste and season with salt, pepper and the remaining lemon juice.Stir in the sliced raw mushrooms, most of the Parmesan cheese and half of the parsley leaves.
Serve with the remaining chopped parsley and cheese sprinkled on top.
Put a large casserole dish on a medium-low heat and a large non-stick frying pan on a high heat.
Prick the peppers, then sit them directly on the gas flame, or under a hot grill, for 10 minutes, until charred (keep an eye on them!).
Meanwhile, scrub the sweet potatoes and slice into 2 centimetres chunks (there’s no need to peel them), then char in the hot, dry frying pan for 5 minutes, turning them halfway through.
Meanwhile, peel the onions and cut into one centimetre chunks, then dry-fry in the casserole dish for 3 minutes until softened.
Push them to the side and drizzle in 2 tablespoons of oil, then stir in the cumin seeds, paprika, cocoa powder and peanut butter.
Add 1 tablespoon of red wine vinegar and scrape up any sticky bits from the bottom of the pan, then stir in the charred sweet potato.
Prick the chillies and blacken all over in the hot frying pan or directly over the gas flame.
Carefully place the charred peppers on a board, then deseed and roughly chop, adding them to the casserole dish as you go.
Carefully remove the charred chillies to a board, then finely chop and add to the mix.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Strain the butter beans in a sieve over the casserole dish, so the juices go straight in, then tip the beans into a the hot, dry frying pan and leave them in an even layer, without stirring, until they start to char and pop, then tip into the veg.Tip in the chickpeas (juice and all) and scrunch in the tinned tomatoes, breaking them up with a wooden spoon, then pour in 1 tin’s worth of water.
Finely chop and add the coriander stalks (saving the leaves for later), season with a pinch of sea salt and black pepper and stir well, then pop on the lid, leaving a little opening, and cook for 1 hour, or until thickened, stirring occasionally.Meanwhile, scrub the potatoes and dry with a clean tea towel.
Prick them all over with a fork and sprinkle with a pinch of sea salt, then place on a baking tray and bake for 1 hour, or until crispy on the outside and fluffy in the middle.For the salsa, peel the onion and thinly slice with the apple, then tip into a small bowl, dress with the lime juice and season to perfection.For the cheat’s chilli sauce, blitz the jalapeños and their vinegar with the mint in a food processor until smooth.When you’re ready to serve, finely chop the coriander leaves and stir through the chilli with 1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil.
Grate the cheese and click off the lettuce leaves.To serve, cut a cross into each baked spud, pinching the bottoms so they open up, and transfer to serving plates.
Top with the cheese, stuffing it in well, then add a good spoonful of the chilli and serve with the lettuce leaves, a dollop of yoghurt, a sprinkling of the salsa and a drizzle of the chilli sauce.Put a large casserole pan on a medium-low heat and a grill pan beside it on a high heat.
The idea here is to work in batches, starting by charring the veg on the grill to add a smoky flavor dimension.
Peel the onions and cut into ½-inch dice, char on the grill for 3 minutes, then place in the casserole pan with 2 tablespoons of oil, the cumin seeds, paprika, cocoa, and peanut butter, stirring occasionally.
Slice the chile(s) ½ inch thick and grill while you seed and roughly chop the peppers and chop the sweet potatoes into rough ¾-inch chunks (leave the skin on for extra nutritional benefit, just give them a wash).
Grill it all, adding to the casserole pan as you go.
Finely chop and add the cilantro stalks.Preheat the oven to 350°F.
Drain the beans in a sieve over the casserole pan so the juices go in, then tip the beans into the grill pan in an even layer.
Have faith and leave them without stirring until they start to char and burst, then add to the veg.
Pour in the canned tomatoes, breaking them up with a wooden spoon.
Stir well, then pop the lid on ajar and leave for 1 hour, or until thickened, stirring occasionally.
Meanwhile, wash the potatoes, prick, then bake for 1 hour, or until crispy on the outside, fluffy in the middle.Just before serving, finely chop the cilantro leaves and stir through the chili, taste, and season to perfection.
Cut a cross into each spud, pinching the bottoms so they open up, then grate the cheese and divide it between them, stuffing it in well.
Pick apart the gem lettuces, and serve each cheesy spud with a good portion of chili, some gem leaves, and a dollop of yogurt.
Trim and cut the aubergine into large chunks.
Heat a couple of lugs of olive oil in a large pan over a medium heat, add the aubergine, oregano and a little sea salt, then toss to coat.
Turn the heat up to high and cook for 4 to 5 minutes, giving the pan a shake every now and then.
While that’s ticking away, peel and finely chop the onion and garlic.
Pick and chop the parsley leaves and finely chop the stalks, then roughly chop the tomatoes.When the aubergine is golden all over, add the onion, garlic and parsley stalks, then cook for a further 2 minutes – if the aubergine gets too dry, add a little more oil to the pan.
Drain and add the capers, destone and add the olives, then drizzle over the vinegar.
When all the vinegar has evaporated, add the tomatoes and simmer for around 15 minutes, or until the aubergine is tender.
Put the couscous into a bowl, add a pinch of salt and just cover with boiling water, then pop a plate on top and leave to fluff up.
Lightly toast the almonds in a dry pan over a medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes, or until golden, keeping them moving.Use a fork to fluff up the couscous and stir through half the chopped parsley.Season the stew to taste, then drizzle with extra virgin olive oil.Serve the stew with the couscous and sprinkle with the almonds and remaining parsley.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Cut the broccoli and cauliflower into even-sized florets, then spread out in a single layer in a roasting tray.
Drizzle with olive oil, sprinkle with baharat and season with sea salt and black pepper.
Toss in the unpeeled cloves of garlic, then spread everything out in the tray and pop in the oven.
Roast for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the veg is cooked through and charred on the outside.
Pop the lentils in a medium-sized pan, pour over the hot stock and add the bay leaf.
Gently bring to the boil over a medium heat, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 25 to 30 minutes, or until they’re cooked but still retain some bite.
Drain and set aside.Make the dressing by squeezing the garlic out of its skin into a bowl.
Mash until creamy, then squeeze in the lemon juice and season.
Whisk to combine, then add a couple of tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.Toast the walnuts in a dry frying pan over a medium heat.
Pick and chop the herb leaves, then toss with the walnuts and set aside.Toss the hot lentils through the garlic dressing, followed by the roasted veggies, herbs and nuts.
Pour a lug of olive oil into a medium-sized, non-stick frying pan over a medium heat.
Chop and fry the halloumi until it’s golden.
Drizzle over the honey and fry for 1 more minute, until sticky and caramelised.
Scatter the halloumi over the salad and serve immediately.
Rinse the lentils, then cook in plenty of salted water until tender.
Drain and set aside to cool.
Trim and finely slice the spring onions, halve the tomatoes, then pick and finely chop the herb leaves.Mix the cooled lentils with the spring onions, tomatoes, herbs and 4 tablespoons of oil.
Add the lemon juice to taste, season with sea salt and black pepper, then serve.
Put all the dressing ingredients in a clean jam jar and shake to combine.
Set aside.
Cook the broad beans in boiling water for 5 minutes, or until tender.
Drain and cool in cold water, then remove and discard the thick, white outer skins.Cut the halloumi into slices, trim and slice the asparagus, then finely slice the courgettes lengthways.
Toss in the olive oil, then season.
Heat a griddle pan over a high heat, then add the asparagus, courgettes and halloumi.
Cook until nicely charred, remove and set aside.Finely slice the shallots into rings, halve the tomatoes, then layer up on a platter with the asparagus, courgettes, halloumi, broad beans and capers.Chop and scatter over the fresh herbs and finish with a drizzling of the dressing.
Cut the pickling cucumbers in half lengthways, and slice regular ones through the middle, then into fingers.
Peel and finely slice the shallots.Put the cucumbers and shallots in a colander.
Sprinkle over 2 teaspoons of sea salt.
After 45 minutes, rinse well.
Combine all the other ingredients in a pan and bring to the boil.
Stir until the sugar dissolves.
Fit the cucumbers snugly into a Kilner jar, then pour over the liquid.
Seal and leave for at least 24 hours.
Cook the linguine in a pan of boiling salted water according to the packet instructions.Drizzle a lug of oil into a medium saucepan over a medium heat, add the tomato passata and capers (rinsed), then finely grate in half the lemon zest.
Simmer for 5 to 7 minutes, then season to taste with sea salt and black pepper.When the linguine is al dente, drain and toss with the sauce to coat.
Finely grate over some Parmesan and extra lemon zest to serve, if desired.
Cook the sushi rice according to the packet instructions, then set aside.
Toast the sesame seeds in a dry frying pan until golden.Place a griddle over a high heat, add the asparagus and cook for 10 minutes, or until nice and charred.
Put the soy sauces onto one plate and the sesame seeds onto another.
Roll the asparagus in the soy sauce, then in the sesame seeds to coat.
Peel and destone the avocado, then slice into strips.
Squeeze over the juice of 1 lime, then set aside.
To assemble the sushi, lay the nori on a sushi rolling mat.
Spread over half the rice, leaving a 2 centimetres gap at each end and spoon a little wasabi paste along the centre.
Top with strips of avocado and the coated asparagus, then carefully (and as tightly as you can) roll up the sushi.
Using a sharp knife, cut the rolls into pieces – about 12 pieces per roll.
Serve with extra sweet soy sauce, some shiso cress and lime wedges for squeezing over.
To make the dressing, halve the lemon, then squeeze the juice into an empty jam jar, using your fingers to catch any pips.Add the oil and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper to the jar.Put the lid securely on the jar and shake well.Have a taste and see whether you think it needs a bit more lemon juice or oil – you want it to be slightly too acidic, so that it’s still nice and zingy once you’ve dressed your salad leaves.Use a knife to trim the roots away from all the lettuces.
Separate out the leaves, throwing any tatty ones away.Pop them in a colander and give them a good wash under cold running water over the sink.Spin them dry in a salad spinner, or wrap in a clean tea towel and shake dry, then pile the leaves into a large salad bowl.Pick and add the herbs to the bowl, discarding the stalks.From a height, drizzle 3 tablespoons of the dressing over the leaves and gently toss together with the tips of your fingers until every leaf is coated – try not to be heavy-handed and don’t be tempted to overdress or the leaves will go limp.Have a taste and add a splash more dressing, if needed – remember you can always add more but you can’t take it away, so be cautious.
Pop the lid securely on the jam jar and keep the leftover dressing in the fridge for another day.
Serve the salad straightaway.PRINT THIS RECIPE (UK)
PRINT THIS RECIPE (USA)
Drain and tip the chickpeas into a food processor.Peel and add the garlic, then add the tahini, a good squeeze of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of oil.Season with a pinch of sea salt, then pop the lid on and blitz.Use a spatula to scrape the houmous down the sides of the bowl, then blitz again until smooth.Have a taste and add more lemon juice or a splash of water to loosen, if needed, then transfer to a serving bowl.Serve with sliced crunchy veg, such as carrots, cucumbers, radishes or peppers, and some warm flatbreads.PRINT THIS RECIPE (UK)
PRINT THIS RECIPE (USA)
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Pierce the aubergine a couple of times with a knife, then roast for 45 minutes until blackened, softened and collapsing.
Leave to cool.Peel and crush the garlic, deseed and finely chop the chilli and pick and finely chop the parsley.Scoop the cooled insides from the aubergine into a food processor.
Blitz with the garlic, chilli, oil, a good squeeze of lemon juice, the parsley and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.Taste and adjust the seasoning, oil and lemon as needed.
Place in a dish and sprinkle with paprika.
Serve with flatbreads.
Snap the woody ends off the asparagus.Blanch the asparagus spears in boiling salted water until tender, then drain.Blend  the asparagus and clotted cream together and mix thoroughly.
Season with sea salt and black pepper, to taste, and whiz one last time.
Light your barbecue and give the coals time to get nice and hot.
Pick the oregano and parsley leaves, peel and slice the onions into wedges, prick the aubergine all over with a fork and halve lengthways.Add the feta to a small bowl with half the oregano leaves, a drizzle of olive oil and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Set aside to marinate while you prepare the rest of the dish.Next make the tabbouleh.
Cook the cracked wheat according to the packet instructions, then rinse and drain.
Set it aside to cool a little.
Pick and finely chop the mint and parsley, then finely chop the cucumber.Once the cracked wheat has cooled, mix in the mint, parsley and cucumber, a good squeeze of lemon juice and a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Have a taste and tweak the seasoning to your liking, then cover and set aside.Once your barbecue is hot enough to start cooking, grill all of the vegetables and the garlic and, once beautifully charred on both sides, transfer them to a chopping board.
Chop up all the veg together, squeezing the garlic cloves out of their skins and squishing the tomatoes.
Roughly chop the parsley and remaining oregano leaves into the vegetables, season and drizzle with olive oil.
Carefully griddle the whole marinated feta on the barbecue for about 3 minutes (this will depend how hot your barbecue is), or until golden and crispy, then gently turn and cook for another 1 to 2 minutes.Toast the pistachios in a small pan over a medium heat until lightly golden, then spoon over the honey and allow the nuts to caramelise, tossing regularly to stop them from catching in the pan (do not be tempted to touch them because they will be very hot!).After a couple of minutes, tip them onto a sheet of oiled greaseproof paper to harden and cool, then roughly chop and leave to one side.Spoon the tabbouleh onto a large serving dish, then top with the chopped vegetables.
Place the griddled feta in the centre, drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil and scatter over the crispy smashed pistachios.
To serve, crumble the feta over the top.
Delicious served with toasted flatbreads.
Trim and chop the rhubarb, then place in a large pan with 175g of the caster sugar and 100 millimetres of water, and cover with a lid.
Bring to the boil, then remove the lid and simmer for 5 minutes, until the rhubarb is cooked.
Set aside to cool.Spoon into a blender and blitz to a purée.
Squeeze in the juice of half the lime.
Taste and add more sugar and lime if needed (it should have a subtle, not overpowering, flavour).
Churn in an ice cream maker for about 20 minutes, or until smooth and set.
If you don’t have an ice cream maker, put the mixture in a tub and place in the freezer.
Every hour give it a good stir.
Repeat until your sorbet is frozen to the right consistency.
Transfer to a nice dish and store in the freezer.To make the brittle, use vegetable oil to lightly grease a tray lined with baking paper.
Mix the matcha powder with a little hot water, then top it up to 75ml.
Pour into a small pan with the remaining caster sugar, and place on a medium-high heat.
Bring it to the boil, but don’t stir – just gently swirl it.
Simmer gently for 4 to 5 minutes, or until it turns a deep brownish-green colour (or the temperature reaches 150ºC on a sugar thermometer, the ’hard crack’ stage), then pour into the greased baking tray.
Roughly chop and scatter on the pistachios and 1 teaspoon of sea salt, then leave to cool.
Once set, break into pieces.To serve, let the sorbet stand at room temperature for about 10 minutes, then scoop into bowls and sprinkle with shards of the brittle.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Deseed the squash and roughly chop along with the sweet potato.
Peel and chop the carrots, then trim and chop the celeriac.Put the chopped vegetables on a roasting tray, then toss in 2 tablespoons of oil, the red wine vinegar, thyme and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Roast for 40 minutes, or until the vegetables are just cooked.
Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large saucepan over a medium heat.
Peel and finely slice the onion, pick and chop the rosemary leaves, then add to the pan along with the bay leaf and flour.Stir well, then reduce the heat to low and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the onion is soft.
Stir in the tomato purée and cook for another 2 minutes.
Pour in the tinned tomatoes and 400 millimetres of the stock, bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 20 minutes.
Take the roasted veg out of the oven, stir them into the sauce, and simmer for another 10 minutes.
To prepare the couscous, tip the grains into a small heatproof bowl with a pinch of salt and pepper.
Add the remaining hot stock, cover and leave for 5 minutes.
Once cooked, pick, roughly chop and stir in the parsley leaves, add a squeeze of lemon juice, then fluff up with a fork.
Season the stew to taste and serve with the herby couscous.
Peel and finely slice the shallots.
Trim and finely slice the spring onions and chillies, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Peel and finely grate the ginger.Heat a few drizzles of oil in a large non-stick frying pan.
Add the shallots, spring onions, chilli, garlic and ginger and cook, stirring often, over a low heat for 10 to 15 minutes, until soft.
For the marinade, crush both kinds of peppercorns in a pestle and mortar with the coriander seeds and sea salt flakes.
Add to the pan with the soy sauce and sugar.
Reduce until thick and glossy, then transfer to a small baking tray.
Cut the tofu into 2 centimetres pieces, then thread onto 4 skewers.
Place in the tray with the marinade, spoon over to coat and leave in the fridge to marinate for a few hours.
When you are ready, barbecue the skewers till crisp, basting with the marinade and turning regularly.
Use a vegetable peeler to shave the cucumber into ribbons and place in a bowl.
Pick, finely chop and add the coriander, followed by the rice wine vinegar and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Toss to mix and serve with the crispy salt and pepper tofu skewers.
Place a frying pan or wok over a high heat.
Add the cashew nuts, then 30 seconds later add the sesame seeds.
Toss for a further 30 seconds until golden, then tip into a bowl.Cut the tofu into cubes, then place in a bowl and dust with the cornflour and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Add a good lug of oil to the pan or wok and place back over a medium-high heat.Fry the tofu until golden and crisp, then scoop it out of the pan with a slotted spoon and set aside on a plate lined with kitchen paper.
While it’s still warm, drizzle with honey and scatter over the nuts and seeds.Peel and slice the garlic and ginger, then trim and slice the spring onions on an angle.
Slice the chillies (if using), cut the broccoli into florets, then slice the pepper.
Halve the sweetcorn lengthways.Return the pan to a medium heat and add the garlic, ginger, spring onions and chillies (if using).
Stir-fry for 30 seconds, or until the garlic turns golden.
Add your vegetables and stir-fry for a further 4 minutes.
Squeeze in the juice from half the lime and add a splash of soy sauce.Tip the vegetables into bowls, top with the crispy tofu and serve with the remaining lime wedges and some chilli sauce, if you like extra heat.
Heat a griddle pan until screaming hot.
Chargrill the chillies until their skins are black and blistered all over.
Meanwhile, peel and halve the tomatillos or green tomatoes, then peel and slice the onions into wedges.
Peel and roughly chop the garlic.
Pick the coriander leaves, then peel, destone and quarter the avocado.Place the charred chillies in a bowl, cover with clingfilm and leave to sit for a few minutes.In batches, chargrill the tomatillos or green tomatoes and onion wedges until they have picked up some serious char marks and are blackened and caramelised on all sides.Remove the chillies from the bowl and peel off the blackened skin.
If you prefer a milder flavour, remove the seeds.
Now you have to choose whether you want a big, chunky salsa or something smoother.
For a textured, chopped salsa, place the chillies, tomatillos, onions, garlic, coriander leaves and avocado on a big board.
Use a large chef’s knife to chop everything, melding all the flavours together, until the ingredients are all about the same size.
Mix in the lime juice and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.For a smooth, bottled salsa, blitz all the ingredients in a blender.
Drip onto eggs or on crispy chicken.
Pour into sterilised bottles and keep in the fridge for up to a week.
Grind the saffron threads to a powder with a mortar and pestle, transfer to a small bowl and pour over 2 tablespoons of hot water.
Set aside.
Peel and finely dice the onion.In a large frying pan, cook the onion in 2 tablespoons of oil over a low heat.
After 10 minutes, add the tomato purée, cinnamon, turmeric, cumin, 1 teaspoon of sea salt, ½ teaspoon of freshly ground pepper, the chopped tomatoes and split peas.
Pour in about 500 millimetres of water and simmer everything over a low heat for 45 minutes or until the split peas are soft.
Spear the dried limes on a metal skewer, then add to the pan and cook, covered, for another 15 minutes.
Once the cooking time is up, add the saffron water and stir through thoroughly.
Remove the skewer from the limes.
Meanwhile, halve one large aubergine lengthways, then slice each half again lengthways into three equal spears.
Salt generously and then let sit for 30 minutes.
Pat dry.
Heat some oil in a small pan to a depth of 2cm.
Fry the aubergine over a medium heat in batches of 2 or 3 spears, until golden brown.
Drain on kitchen paper.
In a small pan over a medium heat, melt the butter and gently fry the barberries until softened.
To serve, place one fried aubergine spear on top of each portion of yellow split peas, with the rice on the side and barberries scattered on top.
To make the dough, gently heat the almond milk until lukewarm, then combine in a small bowl with the yeast and maple syrup.
Set aside for about 5 minutes for the yeast to activate.
Meanwhile, in a large bowl, stir the flaxseed into 3 tablespoons of water and set aside for 1 to 2 minutes.
Melt the coconut oil, then add to the flaxseed mixture along with the flours, cinnamon and one quarter of teaspoon of sea salt.
Gradually stir in the yeast mixture.
Bring everything together with your hands – the dough will feel a bit tacky, but this is fine.
Turn out the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead a couple of times.
Place in a greased bowl, cover with a tea towel and leave somewhere warm to prove for 1 hour or until doubled in size.
Meanwhile, make the filling.
Toast the pecans in a dry frying pan.
Peel  the bananas and destone the dates.Reserving one-third of the toasted pecans to one side, add all the filling ingredients to a food processor, then blitz until smooth.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Grease a 20 centimetres by 20 centimetres baking dish with a little coconut oil.
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough out to 20 centimetres by 40cm.
Blob the nut mixture onto the dough and spread it evenly across to the edges.
Roll up widthways (from the shortest edge) tightly into a log, then cut into nine slices.
Place the slices in the baking dish, cover with a clean tea towel and allow to prove for another 25 minutes or until doubled in size.
Bake for 30 minutes, or until golden and slightly firm to the touch.
Leave in the tin to cool.
In a small bowl, mix together the almond milk and icing sugar until it’s thick enough to drizzle over the buns.
Chop and sprinkle over the reserved toasted pecans and serve.
On a large board, trim and finely chop the carrots and celery, finely chop the tomatoes, then separate and finely chop the lettuce leaves.Once everything is fairly fine, start mixing it up and chopping some more.Crumble over the feta, if using, then pick and roll the mint leaves like a cigar and chop into the salad.Make a well in the middle, add the mustard, balsamic vinegar, oil and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper and mix together.
Then start mixing the salad into the dressing, chopping and mixing as you go.
Or, you could make the dressing by mixing all the ingredients in a jam jar, ready to dress the salad at the table.
Toast the sesame seeds in a hot dry pan over a medium-high heat for a couple of minutes until golden and smelling fantastic.
Set aside.For the dressing, peel the garlic and ginger, deseed the chilli, then finely grate it all into a clean jam jar.
Squeeze in the lime juice, add the soy and oil, put the lid on and shake well to combine.Scoop out and cut the watermelon flesh into one centimetre chunks.
Finely slice the radishes, leaving alone any nice tops, then pick and finely slice the mint leaves (reserve any baby leaves to one side).Combine the watermelon and radishes in a bowl, pour over the dressing, scatter over the sliced mint and toss to combine.
Finish with a scattering of toasted sesame seeds and the baby mint leaves, then serve with lime wedges for squeezing over, if you like.
Cook the farro according to the packet instructions, then drain in a colander and leave to cool.
Cut the cauliflower into florets, then cook in a pan of boiling salted water until just soft.
Drain in a colander and leave to cool.Heat a griddle pan until hot.
Drizzle the asparagus with a little oil and cook on the pan until lightly charred and cooked through.
Leave to cool.Boil the eggs in a pan of boiling water for around 6 minutes to hard-boil, then peel and halve.For the herb dressing, pick and chop the dill and parsley, chop the chives, then combine with the oil and vinegar, and season generously with sea salt and black pepper.
Toast the pine nuts in a dry frying pan.
In a serving bowl, toss the farro, cauliflower, asparagus, pine nuts, raisins and leaves with the dressing.
Serve with the eggs on the side.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or gas 7.
Prick the aubergines all over with a fork, then place on a roasting tray.
Roast for 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until the skin blackens and chars and the flesh can be easily pierced with a spoon.
Allow to cool to room temperature.
Cut the cooled aubergines in half, scoop the flesh into a food processor and pulse until smooth.
Set aside.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic, trim and finely slice the chillies, and peel and finely grate the ginger (you should end up with roughly 2 teaspoons).
Roughly chop 3 of the tomatoes and slice the remaining, then pick and finely chop the coriander leaves.Heat the oil in a large frying pan.
Add the onion and sauté for 5 to 6 minutes, or until softened.
Add the garlic, ginger and chilli, then stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes.
Stir in the tomatoes and curry powder and cook for a further 12 to 15 minutes, or until softened.
Next, add the reserved aubergine and cook, for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring regularly.
Stir in the coriander, then remove from the heat.
Garnish with the extra tomato slices, and serve with the oven-baked corn tortillas.
Peel and finely chop the shallot, then wash the watercress, removing any large stalks.Melt the butter in a large frying pan over a medium heat, then add the shallot and sauté for 10 minutes, or until soft and translucent.
Add the watercress and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes, until the watercress is wilted but still bright green.
Tip the mixture into a sieve and press down to remove as much liquid as possible.
Return to the pan and stir in the ricotta and a squeeze of lemon.
Warm through, season with sea salt and black pepper and add a dash of Tabasco.
Blitz the mixture in a food processor until smooth, then transfer to a bowl.
Whip the cream until quite stiff, then fold into the watercress mixture.
Leave in the fridge to cool.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Click off the woody ends from the asparagus, trim the carrots (leave the skin on) and radishes, then cut the potatoes into wedges.Toss all the veg with the oil, a squeeze of lemon juice and season.
Place in a baking tray and pop in the oven for 45 minutes, or until cooked and slightly caramelised.Remove the veg from the oven and allow to cool a little.
Serve the dip in a bowl alongside the veg with extra watercress, crackerbread and a pinch of smoked sea salt, if you like.
Trim and finely slice the radishes.In a bowl mix together the vinegar and sugar.
Add the radishes and toss together, with a pinch of sea salt, leaving to marinate for 10 to 15 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or gas 5.
Rub the sweet potato with 1 tablespoon of oil and season with sea salt and black pepper.
Bake for 40 minutes, or until cooked through.
Remove and leave to cool.
Peel and finely slice the onions.
Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a 26 centimetres ovenproof frying pan over a medium heat, add the onion, pop on the lid and cook for 20 minutes, or until soft.
Leave to cool.Whisk the eggs in a bowl.
Crumble in the cheese, then add the onion, and scoops of sweet potato flesh, discarding the skin.
Add a good grating of nutmeg, then season.
Wipe out the pan and coat with 1 tablespoon of oil, then add the egg mixture and fry over a medium heat until the eggs start to settle and cook.
Reduce the heat to low and cook for 3 more minutes, then transfer to the oven for 10 minutes, or until cooked through.
Delicious served with a seasonal salad.
Halve the sugar snaps and button mushrooms, peel and finely slice the garlic, and peel and finely grate the ginger.Dilute the miso in a pan as per packet instructions.
Bring to a simmer and add the broccoli, sugar snaps and mushrooms, and cook until the broccoli has softened.Add the spinach, garlic, ginger and noodles until the noodles soften, then pick over the coriander leaves.
Peel, finely chop and add the onions to a pan over a medium heat with a splash of oil.
Sweat it down for 10 minutes.
Add the split peas and 800 millimetres of hot water to the pan and bring to the boil, then turn down the heat and simmer for 20 minutes.
Halve, peel and chop your squash into 2 centimetres cubes, then add to the pan and cook for a further 25 minutes, or until everything is soft and the liquid is reduced and creamy, removing the lid for the last 10 minutes.
Finely chop the dried chilli, then toast with the cumin and coriander seeds in a frying pan over a medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes, or until fragrant.
Then use a pestle and mortar to bash it all to a fine powder.
Finely slice the garlic, then add half to the mortar with the turmeric and coconut, and mix it to a smooth paste.
Stir this through the squash and cook for a further 10 minutes over a low heat until creamy and thick.Finely slice the fresh chilli and add to the frying pan with a drizzle of oil, the curry leaves, mustard seeds and remaining sliced garlic.
Fry gently until golden.
Swirl it through the dal.
Delicious served with rice and wedges of lime.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Melt 50g of the butter in a pan and whisk in the flour.
Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, then whisk in the milk till smooth.
Season with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, add the bay leaf and simmer for 5 minutes.
Turn off the heat.Remove the stalks from the spinach, then wilt with the remaining 20g butter in a covered pan.
When wilted, drain, then, when cool enough to handle, squeeze out the liquid.
Chop the spinach and mix with the ricotta, a ladleful of the white sauce and a good grating of nutmeg.
Season.
In a baking dish, layer the lasagne sheets, white sauce, spinach mixture and a grating of Parmesan.
Finish with a layer of pasta topped with sauce and more Parmesan.
Bake for 30 minutes, or till golden.
Coarsely grate the potatoes, then squeeze out the excess liquid.Peel and finely slice the onion, peel and crush the garlic, then lightly toast the cumin in a dry pan.
Peel and coarsely grate the beetroot.Combine the potatoes, onion and garlic in a large bowl, add the cumin and season.
Use your hands to shape into 4 patties.
Heat the oil in a pan and fry the rostis over a medium-low heat for about 10 minutes on each side, turning carefully and adding more oil, if needed.
Combine the grated beetroot and horseradish in a bowl and serve on top of the rostis.
Pour the stock into a pan and bring to the boil.
Peel and julienne the ginger, peel and finely slice the garlic, then deseed and chop the chilli.
Add to the stock, cover and simmer for 5 minutes.Core and shred the cabbage.
Peel and julienne the carrot, then add to the pan, cover and simmer for a further 3 to 4 minutes, or until the cabbage is wilted.Stir in the miso paste and a good splash of soy sauce to taste.
Add the tofu and let it stand for a few minutes before serving.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Peel and thinly slice the beetroot, then place in a bowl.
Pick in the thyme leaves, and toss with 1 tablespoon of olive oil.Spread out on lined baking trays and roast for 15 minutes, or until crisp.
Allow to cool.
Peel and crush the garlic into a blender, then pour in the chickpeas with their juices.Add the remaining ingredients with a tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, and blitz until smooth.
Season, then tip into a small bowl, drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and serve with the crisps.
Any leftover houmous will keep in the fridge for 4 to 5 days.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Peel and chop the sweet potato, place in a roasting tray, then toss with 1 tablespoon of oil and a pinch each of the cinnamon, cumin and paprika.
Spread out in an even layer, then roast in the oven for 35 to 40 minutes.
Peel and roughly chop the onion.
Pick the coriander leaves, then finely chop the stalks.
Roughly chop the chilli, then deseed and chop the peppers.Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a large pan, then add the onion, coriander stalks, chilli and peppers along with the remaining spices.
Cook over a low heat for 15 minutes, stirring regularly.
Add the cannellini beans with their liquid, and the tinned tomatoes.
Stir, adding a splash of water to loosen, if needed.
Simmer for 30 minutes.Stir in the sweet potatoes along with most of the coriander leaves.
Season to taste and top with the rest of the coriander leaves.
Serve over cooked rice with some guacamole on the side, if you like.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
For the tortilla chips, combine the oil and paprika, then brush over both sides of the tortillas.
Bake on a baking tray for 5 minutes, or until golden and crisp.
Season well and set aside to cool, then break into pieces.To make the soup, peel, destone and chop the avocado.
Peel and deseed the cucumber, reserving a whole 3 centimetres piece to one side.
Trim and roughly chop the spring onions, then pick and roughly chop the coriander leaves.Blitz the avocado, cucumber, spring onions, coriander, stock, yoghurt and green chilli in a blender until smooth.
Season with lime juice, Tabasco, and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then cover with clingfilm and put in the fridge to chill.Peel, deseed and finely chop the reserved cucumber, then finely slice the chilli.Once the soup is chilled, serve in small bowls topped with the tortilla chips, chopped cucumber, red chilli and garlic chives.
Finish with a drizzle of avocado oil, if you like.
Bruise the cardamom pods and shake out the seeds, then roughly crush them with a pestle and mortar.
Peel and chop the onion and sweet potato, peel and finely grate the ginger, then peel and crush the garlic.Heat the oil in a large pan over a low heat.
Add the onion and a small pinch of sea salt and cook for 10 minutes, or until soft and sweet, stirring often.Stir in the sweet potato, ginger, garlic and crushed cardamom seeds.
Cook for 2 minutes, before adding the coconut milk.
Let it simmer for 1 to 2 minutes, then stir in the stock.
Cover with a lid, and leave to simmer gently for 15 minutes.
Liquidise the soup with a stick blender until smooth, then season to taste with a pinch of salt and black pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice.
To make the red pepper topping, heat the oil in a frying pan, then roughly crush and add the coriander seeds and add the chilli flakes.
Cook for 1 minute, or until lovely and fragrant.In a dry pan, toast the coconut flakes (if using).Rinse and finely slice the peppers, then add to the spices with the spinach.
Continue cooking until the spinach has wilted down, then season and stir in the toasted coconut flakes.
Ladle the soup into bowls, finishing with a dollop of red pepper topping, then serve with broken up pieces of poppadoms on the side, if you like.
Turn on the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Carefully cut the pastry block in half with a table knife.
Wrap the other half and refrigerate or freeze for later.
Dust some flour onto a clean work surface and, using a rolling pin, roll out the pastry into a square, measuring 26 centimetres by 26cm.
Cut into 4 equal squares.Place the pastry squares on a baking tray, leaving a space between each.
Using the back of a spoon, spread the centre of each square with pesto, but don’t spread it onto the edges.Squash the tomatoes into a large mixing bowl, then snap the asparagus spears into 3 centimetres pieces.
Keep the lovely pointy tips and a little of the stalk, but discard the end 3cm.
Using a speed peeler, carefully shred the courgettes into ribbons.
Tear the roasted peppers into strips and add to the bowl.
Pick the basil leaves, reserving the pretty ones for later.
Place the large ones in the mixing bowl.
Mix the vegetables together in the bowl, adding a splash of oil.
Pile a little of the mixture on each pesto-smeared tart and top with two olives (if using).
Break up the mozzarella and place little bits on top of each tart – this will make it gooey like a pizza.
Grate over some Parmesan (if using).Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the pastry is golden and the cheese is all bubbly.Once the tarts are ready, allow to cool slightly.
Sprinkle with the reserved basil leaves and serve with a nice salad for lunch.
Peel and finely slice the onions, roughly chop the tomatoes and deseed and finely slice the chilli.Put everything in a pan, season to taste and stir well to combine.
Simmer for 30 to 40 minutes or until jammy.
Pour into a sterilised jar and leave to cool.
Keeps for up to 4 weeks in the fridge.
Perfect on toast with a chunk of cheddar.
Boil and peel the quail eggs.
Peel and slice the shallots.Combine all the ingredients, except the eggs, in saucepan on medium heat.
Boil, then simmer for 2 to 3 minutes.
Cool.
Place the eggs in a sterilised jar and pour over the vinegar mix.
Marinate for at least 24 hours in fridge before serving.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Pick and finely chop the herbs, then peel and thinly slice the onions, potatoes and celeriac.Heat the oil in a frying pan and sauté the onions with most of the herbs until soft.
Cut the garlic in half and rub over a baking dish, then layer the potatoes in a dish with the onions and celeriac and season well.
Pour over the vegetable stock and top with knobs of butter, then cover with tin foil and bake for 45 minutes.Mix the breadcrumbs with the rest of the herbs and a drizzle of oil.
After 45 minutes, remove the foil, sprinkle over the breadcrumbs and bake for a further 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden.
Heat a griddle pan over a high heat until smoking.
Slice the bread into 2 centimetres slices and place on the griddle pan, turning after 1 minute or until each side has been gently chargrilled.
You will need to do this in batches.
Set aside.
Plunge the beans into a pan of boiling, salted water and simmer for 2 minutes, then drain and run under a cold tap until cool.
Pop the beans out of their skins, then season.
Pick, roughly chop and stir through the tarragon leaves.
Gently crush with a fork, so you have a mix of whole and crushed beans.
Drizzle with the oil.
Halve the garlic clove and rub onto each slice of the griddled bread.
In a separate bowl, mash the feta with the yoghurt to form a paste, season and thickly spread onto each garlicky slice, then top with the beans.
Drizzle with oil from the bowl.
Halve the tomatoes and lay them cut-side up in two baking trays.
Sprinkle lightly with sea salt.Peel and finely slice the garlic, then fleck a couple of garlic slices onto each tray.
Drizzle the lot with olive oil.
Pop in the oven for 4 hours, or until soft and sticky.
Remove from the oven and leave to cool.
Roughly chop and scatter with a few herbs, then layer up the tomatoes in sterilised jars.
Top up with extra virgin olive oil to cover, pop the lids on and keep in the fridge where they’ll sit for up to 2 weeks.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or gas 5.
Very carefully cut your squash in half.
Remove and reserve the seeds.
Cut each half into quarters and lay the pieces in a roasting tray.
Scrub, then quarter the larger beetroots and halve the smaller ones, then add to the tray.
Peel and slice the onion into sixths and tuck in among the other veg.
Remove the fronds from the fennel, popping them in cold water for later, then cut each bulb into 6 wedges and add to the tray.
Drizzle with a little olive oil.In a pestle and mortar pound the coriander seeds with a good pinch each of sea salt and black pepper.
Sprinkle this over all the vegetables on the tray and toss to coat.Roast the vegetables for about 40 minutes, shaking halfway through, until soft and golden and just starting to caramelise.
Allow to cool slightly.
Meanwhile, make your dressing by combining the vinegar, extra virgin olive oil, mustard and seasoning in a small jug or jam jar.
Mix well.
Dress the roasted veg while still warm so they soak up all the dressing, then pick and sprinkle over the herb leaves,  and reserved fennel tops.Cut the pomegranate in half and whack the back of each half with a wooden spoon to release the seeds, then add to the vegetables.
Crumble over the feta, then gently toss everything together.
For the dressing, finely grate the orange zest into a bowl and squeeze in all the juice.
Halve the passion fruit and scrape in the pulp, then add the oil and mix together.Finely slice the cabbage, discarding the core.
Remove the woody ends from the asparagus, then finely slice along with the trimmed spring onions and celery.
Peel and coarsely grate the apple and carrot.Pop all the shredded fruit and veg into a large bowl.
Pour over the dressing, mix well and season to taste.Enjoy straight away, or better still, cover and refrigerate for 1 to 2 days so the veggies soften slightly and the flavours mingle and develop.
Mix well before serving and spoon over a little extra passion-fruit pulp, top with shredded spring onions and sprinkle with poppy seeds.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6, and insert a pizza stone or baking sheet to warm up.Warm the milk.
In a bowl, whisk the yeast and sugar with a splash of the milk, until it starts to foam.
In a separate bowl, mix the cornflour, flour, xanthan gum, egg and 4 teaspoons of olive oil with 1 teaspoon of sea salt and the remaining milk.
Add the yeast mixture, then use your hands to combine it all into a smooth dough.In a cup, mix the bicarbonate of soda into the vinegar, then fold it into the dough.
Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover with a damp tea towel and leave to prove in a warm place for 1 hour, until doubled in size.Tip out the proved dough onto a lightly floured surface.
Cut it into eight, then roll them out into circular pizza bases about 5mm thick.To make the sauce, blanch the peas in boiling water for 3 minutes, then drain.
Add them to a food processor, pick in the mint leaves, and add a lug of olive oil, season, then blitz to a paste.In a bowl, combine the goat’s cheese (or curd) with half the lemon juice and half the zest.Top each pizza with the pea purée.
Grate and scatter over the courgette, then dollop on some of the goat’s cheese mixture.
Sprinkle polenta over the pizza stone or preheated tray, then place the pizzas on top.
Bake in the oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until cooked 
and crispy at the edges.Season them, and serve with some watercress, a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a grating of lemon zest.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4, and grease and line the base of a 23 centimetres square cake tin.
Core and coarsely grate 2 of the apples and finely slice the remaining apple.Melt 85g of the sugar and the margarine in a pan, then pour into the prepared tin.
Top with the sliced apple in a single layer.Combine the flour, 110g of sugar, the bicarbonate of soda and mixed spice in a bowl.
In a separate bowl, combine the oil, 180 millimetres water, the vinegar, grated apple and lemon zest.
Mix the dry ingredients with the wet, quickly but thoroughly.
Roughly chop and stir in the walnuts, then pour over the layer of apples in the cake tin.
Bake for 30 minutes, or until a skewer comes out clean.
Leave the cake to cool for 5 minutes before turning out.
Make your mushroom mayo the day before.
Blitz the mushrooms, vinegar and ½ tablespoon of sea salt in a food processor until combined.
Line a colander with a piece of cheesecloth and sit it over a bowl.
Spoon the mixture into the cheesecloth and leave it overnight to strain the liquid.
The next day, lift the cheesecloth with the mixture inside and squeeze out the last of the liquid.
Discard the solids, stir the mayonnaise through the liquid, then set aside.Preheat a griddle pan over a high heat.
Cook the asparagus spears for 3 minutes or until they begin to char, then turn them and cook for 2 more minutes.
Pod the broad beans and divide between four plates with the asparagus.
Grate the cheese over the top and drizzle with the oil.
Serve with the salad leaves on the side and a dollop of the mushroom mayonnaise.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Place the portobello mushrooms on a baking tray, drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil, crush and scatter over 1 clove of garlic and dot on half of the butter.
Roast in the oven for 10 minutes, or until juicy.Heat a griddle pan over a high heat and chargrill the bread until you have deep golden grill-mark lines.
Tear the wild mushrooms, peel and crush the remaining clove of garlic, then add to a frying pan over a medium-high heat with the remaining butter.Fry for 3 minutes, or until the mushrooms are cooked.
Take off the heat and stir through the hollandaise.Top each toast with a roasted portobello and a spoonful of the wild mushrooms.
Serve with a scattering of roughly chopped tarragon and a crack of black pepper.
Trim, halve and chop the leek into chunks, and peel the garlic.
Put a large pan of salted water on to boil, then drop in the leek and garlic cloves.
Cook for 3 minutes, then add your cavolo nero, kale or cabbage.
Cook for another 3 to 3½ minutes, but no more!
Don’t be tempted.
Using tongs or a slotted spoon, move the veg to a liquidiser – it’s OK if a bit of water comes with it.
Add your oil and liquidise until you’ve got a vivid green purée, the same consistency as double cream.
If it’s a bit too dry, add a splash of the cooking water.
Have a taste, season with sea salt and black pepper, then put aside.Bring the water back to boil, and cook the pasta according to the packet instructions.
Drain and return the pasta to the pan, add the sauce and allow it to simmer over a medium-low heat for 30 seconds.
As it comes back to the boil, remove from the heat and finely grate in the Parmesan.
Be quick, so your pasta doesn’t overcook, then check the balance of cheese, salt and pepper.
Finely grate over extra Parmesan, then serve on a big platter and eat as soon as possible.
Peel and finely slice the onion.
Peel the garlic, then finely chop 1 of the cloves and finely slice the rest.
Cut the tofu into cubes.
Finely slice the chilli, and shred the spring greens.Heat the vegetable oil in a pan, add the onion and chopped garlic, and cook gently until the onion begins to brown.
Add the ground coriander and cumin, cayenne and turmeric.
Cook for 1 minute.
Stir in the tomatoes and half a tin of water.
Simmer for 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a frying pan and cook the tofu until golden brown.
Drain on kitchen paper.
Drain, rinse and stir the chickpeas into the tomato sauce, heat through, then add the paprika, garam masala, lemon juice and seasoning to taste, plus more water if it looks too dry.
Add the tofu.Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a pan.
Add the cumin seeds and fry gently to release the aroma, then add sliced garlic and chilli.
When the garlic begins to brown, add the spring greens and stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, until just cooked.
Serve with the tofu and chickpea curry.
Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a frying pan over a medium-high heat.
Quarter and add the aubergines and fry for 6 to 8 minutes, or until tender, tossing well to colour them all over.
Set aside.
Peel and finely grate the ginger and garlic, then peel and very finely slice the white onion (use a mandolin if you have one).Add the rest of the oil to the pan, tip in the cumin and mustard seeds and fry until they begin to pop.
Lower the heat slightly, add the curry leaves and dried chillies and continue to cook until the leaves are crisp and translucent.
Stir in the ginger and garlic and fry for 1 minute.
Add the sliced onion along with ½ teaspoon of sea salt, lower the heat and cook for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the onion is soft.
Stir in the tomato purée, garam masala and coconut milk.
Bring it to a simmer, return the aubergine to the pan and cook for 10 minutes, or until it’s soft but still firm to the bite.
Finely slice the red onion, pick and chop the coriander leaves, then combine in a small serving dish.
Divide the curry between bowls and serve with the red onion salad and poppadoms, if you like.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Toast the pecans in a frying pan until golden, then add the cinnamon and a good grating of nutmeg.
Cook for another 30 seconds, then transfer to a chopping board.
Bake or steam the sweet potatoes (doing this in the microwave will be quickest) until cooked through.
Transfer to the board with the nuts and scoop out the flesh, discarding the skins.
In a bowl, combine the sweet potato, marmalade and butter, mashing it all together, then season.
Spoon into an ovenproof dish and top with the marshmallows (you can halve the amount and it'll still be delicious, if you prefer).
Bake for 25 minutes, or until the marshmallows are golden and puffed up.
Cool slightly before serving.
Preheat your grill to medium, or your oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.Bring a pan of water to the boil.
Trim the ends of the beans, then cut them into 3 centimetres lengths.
Trim the spring onions and chop them up, then pick and chop up most of the mint.Cook the beans in the saucepan of boiling water for 5 minutes, adding the peas or the broad beans for the final 2 minutes of cooking time.
Drain all the veg in a colander and set aside.Beat the eggs together with a whisk, then whisk in a pinch of black pepper and most of the chopped mint.Melt the knob of butter in an ovenproof frying pan, add the spring onion and cook gently for about 5 minutes until soft.
Add the drained veg to the pan, then pour in the minty egg mixture.
Cook for 2 minutes, then very carefully take the pan off the heat.
Crumble and grate the cheeses over the frittata, then grill or bake for 5 to 7 minutes, or until set and golden on top.
Scatter over the remaining mint and serve the frittata warm or cold with a green salad.
Cook the pasta in boiling salted water, according to packet instructions and retain a little of the cooking water.
Meanwhile, blanch the peas and broad beans for 2 minutes.
Pick and finely chop the mint.Drain, then toss with the pasta, a good drizzle of oil, the lemon juice and zest, half the mint, and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Add a good grating of pecorino.
Use a little of the reserved cooking water to loosen, if too dry.
Top with the remaining mint and some extra pecorino, if you like.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
In a large pan of salted water, parboil the Jersey royals.
Drain them in a colander and place over the hot pan to steam dry.
Bash the wild garlic leaves with a little sea salt in a pestle and mortar.
Add a generous lug of oil and mix into a paste, then rub over the potatoes.
Place on a tray, pick and scatter over the leaves of the rosemary sprigs.Roast for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden.
Serve with grilled meat or fish.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6, or fire up your barbecue.Peel and finely grate the garlic, then pick and chop the parsley leaves.
Combine with the softened butter.
Clean the mushrooms and fill them with the butter.
Wrap in tin foil and bake in the oven or place on the barbecue for 15 minutes, or till the mushrooms are soft and cooked.
Split the burger buns or ciabatta, then unwrap the mushrooms and pour the the juices onto the bread.
Smear with mustard and top with a mushroom, a squeeze of lemon juice and some rocket.
Bring a large pan of water to the boil.
Add the broad beans and cook until tender.
Drain and refresh in iced water.
Blitz the broad beans, crème fraîche and a little seasoning together in a food processor.
Put in a bowl and squeeze in the lemon juice.
Pick, finely chop and stir through the dill, then serve with bread, ideally warmed.
Slice the bacon, then peel and finely chop the onion.
Add to a frying pan over a medium heat with 4 tablespoons of oil.
Fry until softened.
Stir in the beans, add the stock, then season.
Reduce the heat and simmer till the beans are tender, but hold their shape.
Toast the ciabatta on a griddle pan for a minute on each side.
Take the beans off the heat, chop and stir in the wild fennel and serve on the ciabatta.
Peel and roughly chop the potatoes, onions and garlic.In a large saucepan, heat a little olive oil, then sauté the potato, onion and garlic until the onions are translucent.
Add the stock and simmer until the potato is soft.
Chop and add the watercress and simmer for a further 3 to 4 minutes.
Using a hand blender, liquidise the soup until smooth.
Serve with a swirl of crème fraîche and some Fortt’s Bath Oliver biscuits, if you like.
Pour the stock into a large pan, add the bay leaves and bring to the boil.
Add the tortellini and cook for 4 minutes.
Add the peas, cook for a further 3 minutes, then add the spinach and cook until just wilted.
Ladle into bowls and serve with some crusty bread, if you like.
Peel and slice the shallots and garlic, then cut the cauliflower into florets.Heat some oil in a pan and fry most of the shallots and the garlic until soft, then add most of the curry leaves and half the mustard seeds, crumble in the chilli and fry for 2 minutes.
Add the cauliflower, split peas and coconut milk, then fill 1 empty tin with water and add to the pan.
Season, bring to the boil, then lower the heat and simmer for 40 minutes, stirring occasionally.
If the liquid reduces too much, add a splash of water.
Fry the remaining shallots in oil on a high heat until crisp, then add the remaining curry leaves and mustard seeds and fry for 1 minute.
Serve the dhal scattered with the crispy shallot mixture.
Prepare the noodles according to the packet instructions.
Bring a pan of water to the boil.
Cut the broccoli into florets and add to the boiling water for 2 minutes.Add the peas and edamame beans to the water, bring back to boil, then rinse, drain and refresh under cold water.
Toast the sesame seeds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat.
Trim and finely slice the spring onions.
Pick and chop the mint leaves.
To make the dressing, peel and finely chop the ginger, then deseed and finely slice the chilli.
Place into a jar with a tight-fitting lid.
Finely grate in the zest from 1 lime, squeeze in about 4 tablespoons of lime juice, then add the remaining dressing ingredients.
Shake well.Combine the noodles, green vegetables and spring onions, then mix in the dressing, chopped mint and toasted sesame seeds.
Before you start, soak the porcini mushrooms in boiling water and set aside.Peel and finely slice the garlic and onions (keep them separate), and pick the thyme leaves.
Dice the potatoes.Heat a lug of oil in a large pan and fry the garlic, thyme leaves and butter over a medium heat until lightly golden.
Add the onions, turn down the heat and sauté for 10 minutes, or until soft and sticky, but not coloured.
Add the fresh mushrooms, turn up the heat and fry hard and fast for 5 minutes.
Fish out and chop half of the soaked porcini, add to the pan and fry for a few more minutes.
Add 350 millimetres of the stock and the potatoes and season well.
Bring to the boil, then turn down the heat and simmer for 30 minutes.Using a stick blender, blitz the mushrooms just a little – you want them to still be fairly chunky.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley leaves, then stir about half into the mix.Divide the filling between 6 small pie dishes, reserving 4 heaped tablespoons for later.
Chop the Tunworth into 1-2 centimetres pieces and scatter evenly into each of the pie dishes.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.To make the lids, roll out the pastry on a flour-dusted surface to roughly the thickness of a pound coin.
Cut into 6 pieces, to the shape of your pie dishes, and lay one over the top of each, tucking the edges down slightly.
Carefully score each pie lid with a crisscross, then gently press your thumb in the middle of each one to make a well (without puncturing the pastry).
Beat the egg and brush it over the pies, then place in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until puffed up and beautifully golden.Now to make the sauce.
In a pan, stir the mustard and Worcestershire sauce into the remaining filling.
Pour in the leftover porcini liquid, then roughly chop the remaining porcini and add to the mix.
Place the pan over a high heat, pour in the remaining stock and bring everything to the boil.
Stir in the rest of the parsley a minute or two before the end, then blitz in a liquidiser until smooth and pour into a jug.To serve, pour the gravy into the wells of the pies, and serve with a dollop of English mustard.
Reserving the fronds, use a sharp knife or mandolin (use the guard!), to thinly shave the fennel.
Peel and thinly shave the celeriac, and place into a bowl of ice-cold water with the juice from ½ a lemon – this will stop it from discolouring.
Set aside.Peel and shave the beetroots into another bowl, then halve and add the radishes.
Slice the cornichons into rounds, then add to the bowl with the  walnuts and dill fronds.Make a dressing by peeling and finely dicing the shallots, then add to a bowl with the cornichon vinegar, the juice from ½ a lemon and 3 to 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.
Season well and set aside.Slice each bread slice into 3 strips and finely grind the juniper berries.
Melt the butter in a frying pan over a medium heat, add the bread and sprinkle each side with the juniper.
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until you end up with golden, crispy toasts.Mix the sour cream with a couple of squeezes of juice from the remaining lemon half and add a pinch of sea salt.Drain the fennel and celeriac and dry well with a kitchen towel, then gently toss with the beetroot and a couple of tablespoons of the shallot dressing.
Pile in the middle of a large serving plate.Using a large spoon, bash the back of each pomegranate half so all the delicious seeds fall over the top of the salad.
Serve with the hot toasts, the soured cream and a small pile of extra juniper on the side.
Crumble the curry leaves into a small frying pan on a medium heat.
Add a big lug of oil, and the fenugreek and mustard seeds.
Fry until the mustard seeds start to pop, then stir in the mango chutney.
Remove from the heat and leave to cool.
Puff up the poppadoms by microwaving for a minute or two.Peel and grate the carrots on a large board, then chop and add the cucumber, spring onions, radishes, lettuce, tomatoes and chilli (deseed it first), mixing and chopping as you go.
Pick over the herb leaves and give it a good final chop.Pour over the toasted spices, add a squeeze of lemon juice, a pinch of sea salt and mix and chop it all up with your knife.
If it’s too dry, add extra oil and lemon juice.Serve sprinkled with crunched-up poppadoms, and extra dollops of mango chutney, if you fancy.
Scrub the potatoes, pick and finely chop the mint, reserving the stalks, then peel and thinly slice the onion.
Slice the cornichons into strips.Cook the Jersey Royals and mint stalks in a saucepan of salted boiling water for about 10 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender.
Drain and leave to cool in the colander (for the best flavour, avoid cooling the potatoes by rinsing in cold water).While potatoes are cooling, place the onion in a bowl, pour over the red wine vinegar and leave to marinate.Once potatoes are cool enough to handle, crush them slightly with your hands into a large salad bowl, drain and add the onions along with the cornichons and mint.
Season, add a splash of oil and serve.
Scrub and leave some of the potatoes whole, then peel and cut the rest into equal sizes.Place the potatoes in a saucepan of salted water.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for 20 minutes, or until tender.
Drain in a colander and transfer to a large serving bowl.While the potatoes are still warm, add the remaining ingredients and season generously with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Transfer to plates and serve immediately.
Trim and finely slice the beans and spring onions.
Lightly toast the walnuts in a dry frying pan, then remove and finely chop.Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil to the pan, then add the runner beans and spring onions and fry for 4 minutes, or until tender.Next, toast the sourdough.Season the beans and spring onions, then pile onto the toast.
Crumble the goat's cheese, then scatter over the top along with the walnuts, then finish with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Scrub the beetroots really well, then chop into wedges and place in a roasting tray.
Add the vinegar, thyme and 4 tablespoons of water, then toss to coat (you may want to wear gloves!).Cover with tin foil and roast for 45 minutes, or until cooked through.
When you're almost ready to serve, toast the bread and spread with the horseradish.
Top with the roasted beetroot, then snip over chives and tuck in.
Prepare the couscous by placing it in a bowl and covering it with 500 millimetres boiling water.
Let it stand for 10 minutes until the water is absorbed, then fluff up with a fork.Soak the raisins in lukewarm water for 15 minutes until softened, then drain.
Toast the almonds and pine nuts by placing them in a dry frying pan over a medium heat and stirring for 2 to 3 minutes, until golden brown.
Roughly chop the pistachios and add to the couscous.
Add the raisins, almonds, pine nuts, cinnamon, sugar and rosewater (if using) and gently toss together.Serve warm or at room temperature with a few gratings of orange zest (if using) to garnish.
Warm and serve the milk on the side for pouring over.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Scrub the sweet potatoes clean, then halve and cut into wedges.
Sprinkle over a pinch of sea salt and black pepper and 1½ teaspoons of paprika (save the rest for the burgers).
Drizzle with ½ tablespoon of olive oil, toss to coat and spread in one layer onto two baking trays.Bake in the hot oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.While your wedges are cooking, drain the chickpeas and sweetcorn and place in a food processor.
Pick the coriander leaves, then add half to the processor along with all of the stalks.
If you don’t have a food processor, place in a bowl and mash with a potato masher or fork.Add the spices, flour and a pinch of sea salt, grate in the lemon zest, then pulse until combined, but not smooth – you want to retain a bit of texture.
If you don’t have a food processor, combine with a fork, then scrunch with clean hands.On a flour-dusted surface, divide and shape the mixture into four equally sized patties (roughly 2 centimetres thick).
Pop onto a tray and place in the fridge for around 30 minutes to firm up.Heat a splash of olive oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat.
Once hot, add the patties and cook for around 10 minutes, or until golden and cooked through, turning halfway.Click off 4 nice lettuce leaves, then finely slice the tomatoes horizontally.Halve the burger buns, then squeeze a large dollop of ketchup onto the base of each one (toast them if you like), then top with the burgers.Layer over a couple of slices of tomato, a lettuce leaf, a few coriander leaves and finally the burger tops.Chop the remaining lettuce with any leftover tomato, drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil, add a squeeze of lemon juice, season, toss to coat and serve up with the burgers and sweet potato wedges.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic.
Pick the basil leaves and finely chop the stalks.
Trim and cut the aubergine into 2 centimetres slices.Heat 3 tablespoons of oil in a pan and sweat the onion, garlic and basil stalks for 7 minutes.
Add the tomatoes, season well and bring to a steady simmer.
Cook for about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, fry the aubergine in the remaining oil until golden, then stir into the tomato sauce with most of the basil leaves.
Cook the pasta according to the packet instructions, drain, then stir through the sauce.
Divide between plates and crumble over some ricotta and scatter over the reserved basil leaves before serving.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil.
Leaving the skins on, halve any larger potatoes, then place them all in the water and parboil for 8 to 10 minutes.
Drain, steam dry, then transfer to a roasting tray.
Crush slightly with a fork, drizzle with oil, then sprinkle over the cumin seeds and turmeric.
Season, toss to coat, and roast in the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden and crisp.
Peel, finely slice and place the onion in a shallow bowl, squeeze over the lemon juice and leave to soak.Toast the seeds in a dry pan and set aside.
Pick and finely chop the herb leaves.When the potatoes are ready, leave to cool a little, then transfer to a serving bowl.
Add the onions, herbs, peas and a drizzle of oil.
Toss to coat, then serve sprinkled with the toasted seeds.
Peel and roughly chop the potatoes, then cook in boiling salted water for 8 to 12 minutes, or until tender.
Drain, then mash with the butter.Combine the flour, baking powder and a good pinch of sea salt in a bowl.
Add the warm mash to the flour mixture and combine gently with a spoon or your fingers to make a dough.Gently shape the dough into 2 balls and transfer to a lightly floured work surface.
Roll each ball into a circle about 5mm thick, prick all over with a fork, then cut into quarters.Heat a griddle pan over a medium heat.
Once hot, smear with a little butter.
Carefully transfer the potato scones, in batches, to the pan and cook for 3 to 4 minutes on each side, or until golden brown.
Serve the hot potato scones with bacon and fried eggs, or scrambled eggs and slices of smoked salmon.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Peel and finely slice the garlic, pick and finely chop the rosemary leaves, discarding the stalks.
Peel and slice the onions, and slice the aubergines and courgettes lengthways, roughly 5mm thick.Peel and cut the squash into 5mm slices, then place on an oven tray, season and drizzle over 3 tablespoons of oil.
Roast on the top shelf of the oven for 35 minutes, or until soft, adding the garlic and rosemary after 20 minutes.Put the whole peppers on a second tray and place on the lower shelf of the oven for 35 minutes, or until blackened.
Tip them into a bowl, cover with clingfilm and set aside for 10 minutes.
Peel and discard the skins of the peppers, deseed, then slice the flesh into large pieces.
Season, then place in a colander to drain.Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pan over a medium heat and sweat the onions for 10 to 12 minutes, or until just caramelised.
Stir in the balsamic and sugar and cook for another 5 minutes.
Place a griddle pan over a medium-high heat.
Brush the aubergine and courgette slices with oil and place on the hot griddle for 5 minutes, until soft and lightly charred (do this in batches).
Turn and season them halfway through, then transfer to a plate.
Set aside.Fill and boil the kettle.
Put the spinach in a colander and pour over the boiling water to wilt it.
Let it cool, then squeeze it dry, chop it up and pop it into a bowl.Add the ricotta to the spinach, then finely grate in the lemon zest and half the Parmesan.
Season, stir to combine and set aside.
Reduce the oven temperature to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4 and grease and flour a 23 centimetres spring-form cake tin.On a floured surface, roll out 420g of the pastry, so it fits the base and sides of the tin.
Carefully press the pastry into the tin, leaving a little overhang, and trim off any excess.Pick the basil leaves.
Sprinkle half the basil and half of the remaining Parmesan over the pastry base, then layer up the veg.
Begin with the courgettes and aubergines followed by a layer of the peppers, then the spinach.
Spoon over the squash and onions, dot over pieces of the goat’s cheese, then scatter on the rest of the basil and Parmesan.Beat and brush the egg around the edge of the pie.
Roll out the rest of the pastry, place it on top and crimp the edges with your fingers to seal.
Poke a hole in the pastry top and brush with the beaten egg.Bake the pie in the oven for 45 minutes, or until golden, covering the top with kitchen foil for the last 10 minutes if it looks too dark.
Leave the pie to cool in the tin on a wire rack for 10 minutes, then take it out of the tin to cool completely.
Serve hot or cold.
Before you start, place the raisins in warm water and leave to soak for 5 to 7 minutes.For the pancakes, peel and chop the onion along with the chilli.
Pick and finely chop the coriander leaves.
Toast the cumin seeds in a dry frying pan.
Lightly crush the pomegranate seeds.Place it all into a bowl with the flour, ground spices and 150 millimetres to 220 millimetres of cold water (just enough to make a thin batter), then stir to combine.
Season with sea salt, black pepper and chilli powder to taste.Grease a large non-stick pan with a little sunflower oil, then cook one pancake at a time until all the batter is used up.
Stack the pancakes between layers of greaseproof paper until required.
For the chutney, dice the tomatoes, peel and finely grate the ginger, then pick and chop the coriander leaves.
Drain the raisins.Heat the oil until hot.
Fry the panch phoran till it crackles, then add the tomatoes, ginger, coriander leaves, raisins and the remaining ingredients.
Salt to taste.
Simmer for 20 minutes, or until thick.
For the salad, destone and slice the avocados, peel and cut the grapefruit into segments, then peel and finely slice the onion.Place into a bowl with the remaining ingredients and mix together at the last minute.
Season the salad, and use to fill the pancakes.
Serve at room temperature with a generous serving of tomato &amp; raisin chutney.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.Halve the carrots lengthways, then separate and bash the garlic cloves, leaving their skins on.
Place on a large baking tray.
Lightly crush and add the coriander seeds, and drizzle over the vinegar and oil.
Toss the carrots and garlic to coat, then season with sea salt and black pepper.Roast in the oven for 45 minutes, or until the carrots are tender and caramelised in places but still have some bite.
Remove the garlic as it caramelises or if it looks like it’s burning.Squeeze the garlic flesh from the skins and mash well.
Mix through the yoghurt then serve in a bowl next to the roasted carrots.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Toast the nuts in a shallow baking tin in the oven for 4 to 5 minutes – you need them to go just a little darker to bring out the lovely toasted flavour.
Allow the nuts to cool and leave the oven on.Top the carrots, leaving small ones whole and slicing bigger ones in half lengthways.
Parboil for 4 minutes, then drain.
Transfer the carrots to a roasting tin and drizzle with the maple syrup or honey and avocado oil.
Roast in the oven for 12 to 15 minutes.
Shake the tin to make sure the juices coat the carrots, then let cool slightly (they're better served when they're still warm).Rinse the sprouting seeds, finely chop most of the parsley leaves, then mix with the hazelnuts and slightly cooled carrots in a serving bowl.
For the dressing, combine most of the orange zest with the orange juice, avocado oil, maple syrup or honey and 2 teaspoons of cracked black pepper.
Pour over the salad and toss to coat.
Chop and sprinkle over the remaining parsley and top with the orange zest for extra prettiness.
Place the bulgur in a bowl, cover with boiling water and leave to expand and cool for 30 to 45 minutes.
Put the lentils, garlic and bay leaves in a saucepan over a medium heat.
Cover with plenty of cold water and bring it to the boil.
Lower the heat and simmer, covered, for 20 to 30 minutes, or until tender.
Drain in a colander, discard the garlic and bay leaves and place the lentils in a large mixing bowl.Drain the bulgur in a colander, then transfer to a clean tea towel, wrap it up and squeeze tightly to get rid of excess water.
Tip it into the lentils.
Trim and slice the spring onions.
Peel, deseed and chop the tomatoes, deseed and slice the peppers, then peel and thinly slice the onion.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley and mint leaves, and finely chop the dill fronds.
Add your prepped ingredients to the lentils, season with sea salt and  black pepper, and mix well.
Stir in the oil, pomegranate molasses, lemon zest and juice and mix until combined.Leave for 30 minutes to allow the flavours to infuse, then serve sprinkled with the sumac.
Pour the passata into a wide dish.
Drain, destone and add the olives, making sure they are all submerged.
Set it aside to soak for about 1 hour.
Beat the feta and capers together to form a rough paste.
Remove the soaked olives from the passata, keeping the sauce to one side.
Gently roll little balls of the feta mixture into tiny sausage shapes and stuff these into the olives.
Set up a little station by lining up three shallow bowls – the first with the flour, whisk the eggs in the second, and the last with the breadcrumbs.
Pour the vegetable oil into a deep pan and place over a medium heat.
Pop a cube of bread in the oil, and when it's golden it is ready to use.
Working quickly, roll the olives in the flour, followed by the egg, letting any excess drip off, then finally coat in the breadcrumbs.
Carefully lower into the hot oil and deep fry until golden and crisp.
To make your sauce, place the leftover passata in a small pan with the oregano leaves and dried chilli.
Season, place over a medium heat and simmer rapidly for 4 to 5 minutes, or until reduced slightly.
Stir in a little extra virgin olive oil and serve with the fried olives and a glass of wine.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or  gas 4.
Peel and finely slice the onion, then deseed and slice up the pepper.
Coarsely grate the cheese.Heat a little oil in a frying pan over a medium-low heat and gently fry the onion for 10 minutes, or until softened.
Peel and crush the garlic, then add to the pan along with the chilli powder.
Add the tomato purée and the tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon as you go, then drain and add the kidney beans.Cook for 10 minutes, or until slightly reduced, then season to taste with sea salt and black pepper.
In a separate pan, fry the pepper in a little oil until starting to soften, then set aside.
Divide the filling mixture in half, then blitz one half with a stick blender to form a bean paste – if you don’t have a stick blender, mash with a potato masher.
Spread the tortillas with the warm bean paste, then add a serving spoon of the filling and a spoonful of red pepper, and sprinkle with cheese.
Roll up the tortillas and place on greased baking tins.
Bake for 5 to 10 minutes, or until golden and warmed through.Dress the salad leaves in a little oil and vinegar, then serve alongside your bean wraps.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Cut the garlic in half widthways and place in a large roasting tray with the tomatoes.
Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil and roast in the oven for 25 minutes, or until the tomatoes have burst.
Take out the tray and leave to cool slightly.

Squeeze the roasted garlic from its skin and put into a blender with the roasted tomatoes, sun-dried tomatoes (drained first), sugar, basil, vinegar and 3 tablespoons of oil.
Blitz until smooth, then transfer to a jug and set aside to come up to room temperature.Heat a griddle pan and chargrill the sourdough on both sides.
Serve the soup at room temperature in shallow bowls, with half a torn mozzarella ball in the centre of each, topped with basil leaves, cracked black pepper and a drizzle of oil, with the bread on the side for dunking.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.For the dressing, place the tomatoes and garlic on a baking tray and roast for 15 minutes, or until soft.
Deseed and finely slice the chilli and pick and tear up the basil, reserving a few baby leaves for garnish.Once roasted, pop the tomatoes in a blender and squeeze in the soft garlic flesh, then blitz until smooth.
Add a few swigs of oil, a splash of balsamic and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, blitz again and check the seasoning, then set aside.
Roughly chop the cherry tomatoes, then place in a bowl and dress with oil, the chilli and torn basil.Slice up the halloumi, then hit it with some black pepper.
Preheat a large non-stick pan over a medium heat, then add the halloumi in a single layer so most of the slices are touching – you want to create a doily effect with a few gaps.
Cook for 4 to 5 minutes, or until golden and starting to melt together, then carefully flip over with a fish slice.
If it breaks, don’t worry, it will all melt back together.
Basically what you’re trying to create is a big halloumi plate.

Once golden on both sides, slide it onto a serving board.
Finely slice the beef tomato and lay the slices on top of the halloumi.Tip over the dressed tomatoes over and scatter with the reserved basil leaves.Take to the table with the tomato and roast garlic dressing to drizzle over before serving.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil.
Peel and finely slice the garlic, then peel, core and cut the pear into 2 centimetres slices.
Pick and finely chop the parsley leaves.Melt the butter in a large pan over a medium heat and add the garlic.
Once lightly golden, add the pear and reduce the heat.
Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until softened slightly.Add the crème fraîche and stilton, and heat until the cheese melts.Add the gnocchi to the boiling water and cook for 2 minutes – they’re done when they rise to the surface; use a slotted spoon to transfer them to the frying pan.
Add enough cooking water to loosen the sauce.
Toss to coat, season well, add the parsley and serve.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.Cut off the broccoli florets, slicing up the stalks.
Blanch the broccoli stalks in boiling salted water for 1 to 2 minutes, then drain.
Toss with the florets in a little oil, then griddle over a high heat for 8 to 10 minutes, or until charred and nearly tender.
Leave to cool in a bowl, drizzling over a little more oil.Pick the parsley leaves and set aside, then finely chop the stalks.
In a bowl, whisk the eggs, season with sea salt and black pepper, then stir in the parsley stalks and broccoli.
Crumble in the Stilton, then add a good grating of Parmesan and mix again.
Melt the butter with a splash of oil in a 20 centimetres ovenproof pan over a medium heat.
Pour in the egg mix, quickly stir a few times to let the egg settle, then cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until it starts to set.
Pop the pan in the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the frittata is puffed up, nicely golden and completely set.To make the salad, toast the pine nuts in a dry pan over a medium heat, or until golden all over, moving them frequently.
Place in a serving bowl with the parsley leaves, then toss in a splash of oil and a squeeze of lemon juice.Take your gorgeous frittata out of the oven and serve immediately with the salad.
Chop the broccoli into 2 wedges, then cook in boiling water for 3 to 4 minutes, or until bright green and starting to soften.
Plunge into cold water to stop it cooking, then shake off the excess water and place on a chopping board with the spinach.
Pick over a few large mint leaves and throw on a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Chop, chop, chop until you have finely chopped greens.
Scrape these straight into your lunchbox, pour the uncooked couscous on top and gently sit a lemon half in it.
Toast the seeds in a dry frying pan, then mix with the cumin and wrap in clingfilm, so they stay crisp until you’re ready to eat.In a small jar, add the juice from the remaining lemon half, a good swig of olive oil (twice as much oil as juice is a good ratio), the harissa and a few small mint leaves, then crumble in the feta.
Mix well, screw the lid on and put in your lunchbox.At lunchtime, boil the kettle.
Take the lemon, seeds and jar from your lunchbox, then pour in boiling water to just cover the couscous.
Pop the lid on and wait 8 to 10 minutes until the water is absorbed and the spinach is wilted.
Squeeze in the lemon juice, pour over the dressing and mix with a fork.
Sprinkle with seeds before eating.
Bring a pan of salted water to the boil, then reduce to a simmer.
Heat a griddle pan over a high heat and toast the bread.
Move each slice to a plate or board and drizzle with a little oil.
Snap the woody end off the asparagus, then griddle for a few minutes on each side, sprinkle with the paprika and divide between the pieces of toast.While the asparagus is grilling, poach the eggs in the simmering water for 3 minutes.
Using a slotted spoon, remove the eggs and drain, then place them on top of the asparagus.
Grate over the parmesan, then pick and sprinkle over the mint leaves.
Preheat the grill to high.
Cut the aubergines into one centimetre slices, then place on a baking tray and brush with 1 tablespoon of oil.
Grill for 10 to 12 minutes, till golden brown.
Turn the slices over, brush with another tablespoon of oil and grill for 5 to 8 minutes, until golden.
Peel and finely slice the onions widthways, peel and finely slice the garlic, then deseed and slice the peppers and fennel.
Cut the courgettes into one centimetre rounds.In a large frying pan, heat the remaining oil over a medium heat.
Add the onions and cook for 5 minutes, until they begin to soften and turn golden.
Add the garlic and cook for a few minutes, then add the peppers, fennel and courgettes, and cook for 5 to 8 minutes until they begin to soften.Use a knife to score a cross into the base of each tomato.
Put them in a bowl, cover with boiling water and leave for a minute.
Remove with a slotted spoon and peel the skin.
Cut the tomatoes in half and remove the seeds with a spoon.
Roughly chop the tomatoes and add to the pan, along with the aubergine and herbes de Provence.Lower the heat, cover the pan with a tight lid and simmer gently for 20 minutes or so, until the vegetables are cooked through.
Season to taste.To make the salsa verde, remove any tough herb stalks and peel the garlic, then use a pestle and mortar to grind the herbs and garlic to a paste, adding a little sea salt to help the process (or blitz in a food processor).Crush in the capers.
Stir in the oil, finely grate in the lemon zest and squeeze in the juice, adding more oil or juice if necessary, to create a flavour and texture you like.
Season to taste.
Serve the ratatouille in bowls with a spoonful of salsa verde.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Crumble the feta into large chunks, roughly chop some of the tomatoes, leaving the smaller ones whole, then destone the olives.
Tear the sourdough into chunks, and pick the basil leaves.Combine the feta cheese, tomatoes, olives, sourdough and a splash of oil in a baking tray.
Season, then pop it into the oven for 30 minutes, or until the tomatoes are tender and the feta is golden at the edges.
Scatter over the basil and serve.
Lightly toast the cumin in a dry pan, then tip into a bowl.Add the flour, baking powder and seasoning with 250g of the yoghurt and mix together until you have a rough dough.
Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead until the dough just comes together.
Place in a lightly greased bowl, cover with a damp tea towel and put to one side.
Peel, destone and chop the avocado into chunks, then place in a bowl.
Crumble in the feta.
Add a drizzle of oil and season to taste.
In another bowl, stir the harissa into the rest of the yoghurt.
Divide the dough into eight balls.
Roll each one on a lightly floured surface into an oval shape, roughly 3mm thick.
Place a griddle pan over a high heat.
Once hot.
griddle each flatbread for 2 to 3 minutes, until puffed up and charred, turning halfway.
Off the heat, brush the flatbread with a little oil, then serve with the avocado salad and harissa yoghurt.
When your wood-fired oven has reached roughly 220ºC (check with a thermometer) and the smoke and flames have died down, start cooking.
Or preheat your regular oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.Cut the aubergines into one centimetre slices, finely chop the spring onions, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Place the aubergine slices in a sturdy ovenproof pan.
Brush lightly with oil, then sprinkle over ½ teaspoon of cinnamon and a little sea salt and black pepper.
Cook for 15 to 20 minutes, or until softened and charred, adding the spring onions, garlic and cherry tomatoes halfway through.
In a bowl, combine the breadcrumbs, pine nuts, raisins, a pinch each of cinnamon, salt and pepper, and a drizzle of oil.
Add a splash of vinegar to the charred veggies, sprinkle over the breadcrumbs and cook for 5 to 10 minutes, or until crispy and golden.
When the temperature on your wood-fired oven has reached roughly 220°C (check with your thermometer) and the smoke and flames have died down, start cooking (or preheat your regular oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7).Place the grapes in a large roasting tray, pick over the the thyme leaves, sprinkle with the sugar, then drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil and a splash of vinegar.Roast for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the grapes are just starting to catch and burst open, keeping an eye on them and turning when necessary.Roughly chop the Cheddar into large chunks.
Remove the tray from the oven and spoon over dollops of crème fraîche, scatter over the Cheddar chunks, then tear up the Tunworth and nestle the pieces in and among the grapes.Pick the sage leaves, then drizzle with 1 tablespoon of oil and scatter over the top.
Pop the dish back in the oven for 5 minutes, or until the cheese starts to melt.
Serve in the middle of the table with your favourite bread, a bowl of walnuts, and a lovely bottle of red.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.Trim the bases of the celery hearts with a sharp knife or a speed-peeler and peel the outer stalks, keeping each heart in 1 piece.
Trim the ends so the hearts are 12 to 15 centimetres long.
Cut the celery lengthways into quarters, then across in half.
Peel and slice the onion lengthways, and peel and finely chop the garlic.
Pick and finely chop the thyme leaves, then chop the pancetta or baconPlace a saucepan over a medium heat and add a splash of oil.
Add the onion and pancetta or bacon, and cook for a few minutes until the onion is soft.
Add the celery and cook with the lid on until the celery is soft.
Heat another pan and add a splash of oil.
Add the garlic and fennel seeds, then, when the garlic’s golden brown, tip in the tomatoes.
Fill the tomato tin with water and add that, along with a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Cook the sauce over a medium heat for half an hour or so, until reduced and thick.When the celery’s soft, remove the lid and let the ingredients brown slightly on the bottom of the pan.
Lightly oil a shallow 20 centimetres by 20 centimetres baking dish and spoon a little tomato sauce in the bottom.
Spread it out and top with about a third of the celery pieces.
Cover with more tomato sauce, some thyme leaves and a good grating of Parmesan.
Keep layering, then finish with the last of the tomato sauce, lots of cheese and a sprinkle of sea salt and black pepper.
Bake for about 20 minutes, or until heated through and crisp on top.
There are some beautiful Mediterranean vibes going on in this dish – juicy ripe tomatoes, fresh fragrant basil and delicious olives, all tossed and tangled up in al dente spaghetti.
The flavour combo here is mega-simple, but when you put them together, something magical happens.
Let the tomatoes ripen naturally out of the fridge – the warmth will ensure all those lovely flavours and juices are at their best and ready to flow.
Tomatoes are a source of vitamin C, a nutrient our bodies need for so many different things, including immune function and keeping our energy levels up.Cook the spaghetti in a pan of boiling salted water for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente, which means that it should be soft enough to eat, but still have a bit of bite and firmness to it.On a large chopping board, chop the tomatoes.
Bash the olives and tear out the stones, then add the olives to the pile of tomatoes.Pick the basil leaves, reserving the smaller ones for later and throw the rest onto the pile.Peel, chop and add the garlic to the pile, then run your knife back and forth through all of the ingredients, chopping and mixing as you go, until you get a rough-looking salsa.Add a good couple of lugs of oil, the vinegar and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, and keep chopping and mixing until well combined.Scoop out and reserve a cupful of the pasta cooking water, then drain the spaghetti in a colander.Pop the spaghetti in a large bowl, scrape in the salsa dressing, adding a splash of the reserved cooking water, if needed, to make a lovely loose sauce.Sprinkle over the reserved baby basil leaves and add a grating of hard Italian cheese before serving.
Peel and finely chop the onions and garlic, then trim and finely slice the celery.
Deseed and finely chop the peppers and chillies.
Pick the coriander leaves, then finely chop the stalks.Drizzle a lug of olive oil in a large saucepan and place over a medium-low heat.
Add two-thirds of the chopped onion, garlic, celery, coriander stalks and peppers to the pan, then pick in the thyme leaves.
Add half of the chilli and gently sauté the veggies for 15 minutes, or until softened but not coloured.
Tip in both tins of black beans with their liquid, followed by the bay leaves and 400 millimetres of boiling water.
Turn up the heat and bring to the boil.
Season, reduce the heat to low and simmer, uncovered, for 30 minutes, or until thickened and creamy.
If it reduces too much, add a splash more water.
Next, crack the eggs directly into the soup and reduce the heat slightly.
Leave the eggs to poach in the soup for 5 minutes, or until the whites are cooked but the yolk is still a bit runny.
While they’re poaching, make a salsa.
Finely chop the coriander leaves and add to a bowl with the remaining chopped onion, the red wine vinegar and a few tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.
Mix well.When you’re ready to serve the soup, warm your tortillas directly over an open flame or on a hot griddle pan.
Serve them alongside the black bean soup and salsa, and finish each bowl with a drizzle of the chilli coriander oil.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or gas 5.
Wash the potatoes, then rub with sea salt.
Prick the skins with a fork and place on one side of a baking tray, then bake in the hot oven for 30 minutes.Cut the celeriac into large chunks and separate the garlic bulb into cloves, then place onto a large piece of baking parchment.
Sprinkle with sea salt and black pepper, drizzle over 2 tablespoons of olive oil, toss to coat, then wrap up into a loose parcel.
Once the potatoes have had 30 minutes in the oven, add the celeriac parcel to the tray and bake for a further 20 to 30 minutes, or until the potatoes and celeriac are soft and cooked through.
Scoop the potato flesh from the skins, squeeze out the garlic flesh and mash together with the celeriac.
Pick in the thyme leaves and add the rest of the oil and mash again.
Taste, season and serve.
Cook the potatoes in boiling water until cooked but not too soft, then set aside to cool.Cook the broad beans in boiling water for 2 to 3 minutes, or until tender.
Drain, then refresh in cold water.
When the beans are cool enough to handle, peel the outer skins.Finely chop the spring onions and chilli.
Heat the oil in a 23 centimetres pan and fry the spring onions and chilli over a medium heat for 2 minutes until soft.
Slice the cooled potatoes, add to the pan and cook gently for 2 minutes.
Chop the dill, add to the eggs and beat.
Season well.Preheat the grill to high.
Add the broad beans and peas to the pan and stir to combine.
Tip in the beaten eggs and cook over a medium heat for 4 minutes, until starting to set.
Remove the pan from the heat, place under the grill and continue cooking the frittata until golden.Leave to cool slightly, then place a large plate upside-down over the pan and carefully turn it over so that the frittata falls onto the plate.
Serve scattered with cress and fresh goat’s cheese.
Slice the aubergine into one centimetre-thick rounds.
Peel the garlic cloves.In a large pan on a medium heat, fry the aubergine slices in generous amounts of olive oil, about 5 to 6 minutes on each side, or until golden brown – you will need to do this in batches, adding more oil as necessary, as aubergines absorb a lot.
Transfer to folded paper towels to drain, and allow to cool before chilling until needed.
For the dressing, pick and finely chop the mint leaves.
Using a pestle and mortar, crush the garlic and a pinch of sea salt into a paste.
When smooth, mix in the extra virgin olive oil, vinegar, pomegranate molasses and mint.
Arrange the aubergine slices on a serving plate, then top with the yoghurt, drizzle over the dressing and scatter over the pomegranate seeds.
Cook the rice according to packet instructions.
Drain, then place in a large bowl and set aside to cool.
Thinly slice the courgettes lengthways with a mandolin or sharp knife, then cook in a pan of salted boiling water for 2 to 4 minutes, until tender.
Drain, and dry on paper towel.
Lightly grease a 24 centimetres ring mould.
Line the mould with the courgette slices, slightly overlapping, and press into the sides.Pick the basil, reserving the baby leaves and finely chopping the rest.
Pick the parsley leaves and finely chop the stalks, then pick and finely chop the mint leaves, discarding the stalks.
Add 4 tablespoons of oil, the chopped herbs, yoghurt and lemon juice to the rice, mix well and season.
Spread over the courgette, pressing down firmly to compact.
Trim any overhanging courgette, cover with clingfilm and chill for 2 to 3 hours.
Meanwhile for the filling, peel, deseed and dice the tomatoes, then combine with the vinegar and 6 tablespoons of oil in a bowl.
Season and leave to to marinate for at least 30 minutes.

To serve, carefully invert the mould onto a serving plate.
Spoon the tomato filling into the centre and drizzle over the lovely tomato juices.
Scatter over the small basil leaves, slice and serve.
Preheat the oven to 160 Celsius or 325 Fahrenheit or gas 3.Trim and quarter the fennel bulbs, then lay in a roasting dish, scatter over the tomatoes and caraway seeds.
Season with sea salt and black pepper and drizzle with oil.
Cook for 1 hour or until the fennel is tender and caramelised.
Trim and julienne the courgettes, then pop the courgette ‘spaghetti’ in a colander with a splash of oil and a pinch of sea salt.
Toss, then set aside over a bowl to drain for 10 minutes.
For the pesto, toast the almonds, then pulse with the garlic in a food processor.
Pick in the basil leaves, grate in the parmesan, squeeze in the lemon juice and most of the rocket (saving some to serve) and pulse to form a paste.
Slowly add the oil and pulse again until smooth.
Season and toss the pesto through the courgette.
Scatter over the saved rocket and serve.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.Trim and finely chop the leek, chop the carrots, and peel and finely chop the garlic.
Chop the almonds, plus a few extra to serve, then toast until golden.
Pick the dill, then cube the feta.Heat the oil in a pan over a low-medium heat, and sauté the leek and carrots for a few minutes.
Add the garlic, cumin seeds and a splash of water, season, then cover and gently cook until the veg is soft, about 5 minutes.
Stir often, adding water if it catches.
Blanch the cabbage leaves in boiling salted water for 2 to 3 minutes, drain and lay out on a board.
Fold most of the almonds, the dill and feta into the veg mix, then spoon 3 tablespoons into the centre of each leaf.Roll up and place, seam-side down, in a baking dish.
Drizzle with oil, cover and bake for 15 minutes.
Serve with a the reserved almonds on top.
Peel the carrots, then you can chop, quarter or halve them, but I like to leave them whole with the tops on.
Don’t worry, this recipe will work however you prep them so just get them ready your favourite way.
Place the carrots in a large, wide pan and just cover with cold water.
Add a good pinch of sea salt and a pinch of black pepper, the clementine juice (you can use oranges instead, if you prefer), vinegar and butter.
Bring to the boil and cook for 20 minutes, or until nearly all the liquid has evaporated.
Once the butter starts to glaze the carrots, add the thyme sprigs and reduce the heat to low.
Cook for 5 minutes, or until caramelised and delicious.
Coarsely grate the courgettes, finely grate the lemon zest and Parmesan, then deseed and finely chop the chilli.
Pick and finely slice the mint leaves.Beat the egg, then mix with the courgette, flour, lemon zest, Parmesan, chilli, mint, oregano and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Scrunch it all up really well with your hands, then crumble in the feta and mix again.
Heat a good drizzle of oil in a frying pan and fry tablespoons of the mixture for a couple of minutes each side until golden – these fritters make a lovely lunch with a leafy salad, some sweet chilli sauce and lemon wedges for squeezing over.
Put the rice in a small saucepan with 375 millimetres water, leave to soak for 30 minutes, then bring to the boil.
Put the lid on and simmer gently for 10 minutes, until the water has been absorbed by the rice.
In a bowl, dissolve the sugar in the vinegar, then sprinkle over the rice mix, combining with a rubber spatula so as not to break up the rice.
Allow to cool for 20 minutes before using.Deseed or peel the vegetables, then cut into fine strips or batons.Place a sheet of nori on a bamboo sushi mat, then spread half the rice over the sheet except for one centimetre clear at the top.
Add some vegetables in a horizontal line across the rice.
Begin rolling the mat from the near edge, keeping the filling in place with your fingers.
Roll firmly but not too hard.
Remove the roll from the mat and cut into 6 or 8 pieces.
Repeat with second piece of nori.
If using dried chickpeas, soak them overnight.
The next day, drain, place in a large pan, cover with water, bring to the boil then simmer for 1 hour, or until tender.Place the onions in a bowl, cover with boiling water and let stand for a couple of minutes.
Remove them carefully, then peel.Trim the carrots and courgettes, then slice into large batons.
Chop the pumpkin into large pieces and roughly chop the potato.Cut the cabbage into 8 wedges.
Prick the whole aubergines all over with a fork, then trim and halve lengthways.
Pick and roughly chop the herbs.Peel and roughly chop the ginger and place in a large pan with the saffron, cumin and coriander seeds, most of the mint and parsley leaves, the tomato purée and vegetable stock.
Bring to the boil, then add the onions, carrot, pumpkin and potato.
Cover and allow to bubble away for 10 minutes, then add the remaining veg and the cooked or tinned chickpeas.
Cover again and leave to simmer away for a further 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.Cook the couscous according to the packet instructions.
Take the tagine off the heat.
Spoon the couscous onto serving plates and top with the tagine, scatter with the remaining mint and parsley leaves.
Serve immediately with harissa, to taste.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or gas 7.
Halve the tomatoes, quarter the onions (there's no need to peel them), then place in a roasting tray with the peppers and unpeeled garlic cloves.
Drizzle with oil, sprinkle with sea salt and roast for 45 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender and blackened all over.
Transfer the peppers to a wooden chopping board, peel off the skins immediately and discard.
Deseed the peppers and cut the flesh into strips before putting into a large bowl.
Add the tomatoes, onion and garlic (removing the tough skins first) and any remaining juices from the roasting pan to the bowl with the peppers.
Add the capers, paprika, 4 tablespoons of oil and the lemon juice, then season generously with sea salt and black pepper.
Combine well with your hands and transfer to a serving bowl.
Serve warm or cold, drizzled with a little oil.
Line a loaf tin with clingfilm.
In a blender or food processor, blitz the strawberries with 4 tablespoons of yoghurt.
Pour the fruit mixture into the tin and place in the freezer for at least 15 minutes.Meanwhile, rinse out the blender or food processor, and blitz the bananas with another 4 tablespoons of yoghurt.
Add this layer to the tin and return it to the freezer.
Repeat with the other 2 types of fruit and remaining yoghurt.
The cake is ready as soon as the top layer is hard, but you can keep it in the freezer as long as you like.
Slice the cake while still frozen and serve with berries.
Preheat the oven to its lowest setting.
Place the mash in a large bowl, then slice the spring onions.
Set a medium saucepan on a medium heat.
Add a little splash of oil, followed by the spring onion.
Cook for about 10 minutes or until just starting to soften.
Spread the breadcrumbs out on a baking tray.
Bake in the oven for 5 to 7 minutes to dry out, then set aside.
Raise the oven temperature to 200 Celsius or gas 6.Tip the spring onion into a food processor with the corn, peas and leftover veg.
Pick the parsley leaves and put to one side, then place the stalks in the processor.Pulse to just combine, then use a rubber spatula to scrape the mixture into the bowl with the potato.
Mix together, then season with a tiny pinch of sea salt and black pepper and a scraping of lemon zest.
Alternatively, mash everything together with a potato masher in the large bowl.
Line a baking sheet with greaseproof paper.
Split the veg mixture into 12.
Roll each into a ball and shape into fingers.
Place each finger on the tray, then chill in the fridge for 10 minutes or so to firm up.
Now it’s time to set up a little production line:
tip the flour into a shallow bowl and mix in the paprika.
Crack the eggs into another bowl and whisk well with a fork.
Tip the breadcrumbs into the final bowl.
Take the fingers from the fridge.
One at a time, coat them in flour, dip in the egg, letting any excess drip off, and then roll in breadcrumbs.
Place back on the tray, drizzle with oil and bake for 12 to 15 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.
In the meantime, prepare your sandwiches.
Discard the outer leaves from the lettuce, then break off the nice, smaller ones.
Rinse, pat dry with kitchen paper and set aside.
In a small bowl, mix the mayonnaise and yoghurt together with a little squeeze of lemon juice.
Cut the rolls in half.
When the fingers are ready, remove from the oven.
Fill the buns with the fingers, lettuce, parsley leaves, mayonnaise mixture and top with a snipping of salad cress.
Delicious served with sweet potato wedges.
Cook the linguine according to the packet instructions.
Meanwhile, carefully crack the eggs into a small bowl and beat them with 
a fork.
Season with a little black pepper, then stir in the ricotta finely grate in most of the lemon zest.
When the pasta has 3 minutes left, add the peas.
Reserve a little cooking water, then drain the linguine and peas, and return to the pan.
Stir in the egg mixture and spinach with a wooden spoon – they’ll cook gently in the residual heat.
Add a little pasta water to loosen, if needed.
Share between bowls and serve with a green salad.
If using dried beans, soak them overnight.To make the jerk marinade, trim and roughly chop the spring onions, and pick the thyme leaves, then blitz all the ingredients in a blender with a splash of oil until you have a lovely smooth sauce – loosen with a splash more oil, if needed.
For the roasted veg, quarter and deseed the squashes and peppers, slice the okra in half diagonally and trim the spring onions.
Toss in the marinade, with the unpeeled garlic, then leave to marinate for at least 2 hours.
Next, prepare the beans.
If using soaked beans, drain, then boil them in 
a large pan of fresh cold water with the garlic, spring onions (bash before adding), the thyme, allspice and cinnamon until soft and tender, for about 1½ hours.
Grate and stir in the coconut cream, then prick and add the scotch bonnet chilli, and simmer for 10 minutes.
Add the rice and cook for 25 to 30 minutes, or until soft, adding extra splashes of water, if needed.
Alternatively, if using tinned beans, put the rice in a large pan and pour over enough water to come up one centimetre above the rice.
Add the garlic, spring onions bash before adding), thyme, allspice, cinnamon, and coconut cream, prick and add the chilli, then cook for 25 to 30 minutes, or until soft.
Drain and stir in the beans for the last 10 minutes.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Arrange the marinated squash on a roasting tray, reserving the marinade, and roast for 45 minutes, or until soft and golden.Heat a griddle pan over a high heat and grill the marinated peppers, okra, spring onions and the garlic, until slightly charred on all sides.
Return them to the bowl of marinade.
Dress with a little oil, toss with the cooked squash and spread the mixture on the roasting tray.
Pop back in the oven for a further 5 to 7 minutes.To make the pickle, peel and finely slice the onion, and deseed and finely slice the chillies.
Mix all the ingredients together, then, wearing disposable gloves, use your hands to scrunch everything together.
Serve the rice and peas with the roasted vegetables and the pickle and yoghurt on the side.
Prick the whole aubergines all over with a fork, slice in half lengthways through the stalk, then peel and finely chop the garlic and onion.
Pick the dill.Bring a pan of water to a simmer over a medium-high heat.
Add the aubergines, pop on the lid, reduce the heat and simmer for 6 to 8 minutes, or until they are tender.
Take them out and drain well on kitchen paper.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
When the aubergines are cool enough to handle, scrape out the flesh with a spoon, being careful not to pierce the skin.
Roughly chop the flesh and place it in a large bowl, and arrange the skins in a baking dish.Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a pan over a low-medium heat, then add the garlic and onion and gently fry for 3 to 4 minutes, until soft.
Stir in the cumin and cook for another minute.Add the garlicky onion to the bowl of aubergine along with the cooked rice, lentils, raisins and half of the dill, mix well and season to taste.Stuff the aubergine skins with the rice mixture, and place them back in the baking dish.
Drizzle over oil and roast for 25 minutes, until golden.To make the tomato sauce, place all of the ingredients in a pan over a low-medium heat and simmer gently for 4 to 5 minutes, until thickened.
Blitz with a hand blender until smooth.Spoon the sauce over the stuffed aubergines and serve with the feta crumbled over and the remaining dill scattered on top.
Separate the cauliflower into florets, then cook in boiling salted water for 5 minutes, then drain, reserving about 150 millimetres cooking water.Roughly chop the potatoes and cook in boiling salted water for 10 minutes, then drain.Peel and thinly slice the garlic and onion, then finely slice the chilli.
Heat the oil and butter in a large frying pan over a low heat and sauté the garlic, onion and chilli till softened.
Stir in all the spices, season, and cook for a few minutes.
Add the cooked cauliflower, potatoes and reserved cooking water, then simmer on a low heat for 10 minutes.
Drain and add the chickpeas, then the spinach.
Cook, stirring, until the spinach wilts.
Transfer to a serving bowl and serve with a dollop of yoghurt and a squeeze of lime juice.
Soak the chickpeas in cold water overnight.Drain the chickpeas and place in a saucepan.
Cover with cold water and bring to the boil over a high heat for about 45 minutes or until tender.
Drain and set aside to cool.Thinly slice the courgettes lengthways.
Heat a heavy frying pan or griddle pan over a high heat.
Brush the courgettes with oil and chargrill for 1 to 2 minutes each side, until tender.Arrange the courgettes on a serving plate, scatter over the chickpeas, crumble over the goat’s cheese and pick over the marjoram.
Season to taste, drizzle with the remaining oil and serve immediately, with lemon wedges for squeezing over.
Peel and finely chop the onions, drain and rinse the chickpeas and finely slice the green chillies.
Heat the oil in a saucepan over a medium heat and add the mustard seeds; once they’re crackling, add the asafoetida.
Stir in the onions and fry until transparent and turning golden at the edges.
Chop and add the tinned tomatoes, then cook for another 5 minutes, before adding the ginger, garlic and green chilli pastes, the red chilli powder, dhana jeera, sugar (if using), and a pinch of sea salt.
Keep stirring and cook for further 5 minutes.
Stir the chickpeas into the pan.
Add 250 millimetres water to make a thick sauce.
Place the lid on the pan, lower the heat and simmer for 5 to 7 minutes.Pick and finely chop the coriander, then sprinkle on top along with the garam masala and finely sliced green chillies, to serve.
Rinse the rice in a sieve under cold running water to get rid of some of the starch, then place in a pan with a pinch of sea salt and cover with 400 millimetres of water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer, covered, for 45 minutes, until all the water has been absorbed and the rice is fully cooked.
Defrost the edamame beans by putting them in a bowl and covering them with boiling water.
Leave for 10 minutes.Warm a dry frying pan over a medium heat and toast the nori sheets for a few seconds on each side.
Leave them to cool, then tear them into strips.For the dressing, finely grate the lemon and orange zest into a jug and squeeze in all the juice.
Add the remaining ingredients and mix together.
 Once the rice is cooked, drain well and mix with the dressing and half the sesame seeds.
Place the rice in 2 bowls and top with piles of edamame, the pomegranate seeds, nori strips, and the remaining sesame seeds.
Pick, roughly chop and scatter over the coriander leaves, and enjoy!
Pick the basil leaves, and peel the garlic.
Toast the pine nuts in a dry frying pan until golden.Blitz the peas, spinach, basil, 1 clove of garlic, the pine nuts and 70g of goat’s cheese in a food processor until you have a thick paste.
To loosen it a little, squeeze over the lemon juice and a few splashes of oil.
If it is still quite thick, add a splash of water until it is spoonable, like yoghurt.Cook the pasta according to the packet instructions until al dente.
Drain in a colander then cool under cold running water to prevent it from cooking any further and going mushy.
Return the pasta to the pan, add the pesto and stir well to combine.Chop the remaining garlic.
Heat a splash of oil in a pan, add the garlic and breadcrumbs, then cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the breadcrumbs are crunchy and golden.Line up 12 clean, empty jam jars or containers and fill them with the pesto pasta.
Scatter the breadcrumbs on top then grate over the remaining goat’s cheese.
Screw on the Iids and you’re ready for your picnic.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Deseed the squash and cut into 8 wedges, then place in a roasting tray and sprinkle over the chilli, drizzle with oil and season.
Toss well, spread evenly and roast for 35 to 40 minutes.
Remove and cool.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic, pick the sage leaves and roughly chop the chestnuts.
Finely grate the Parmesan.Add a drizzle of oil to a pan and place over a medium heat.
Fry the onions for 10 minutes, until soft, then add the garlic, sage and chestnuts.
Continue to fry for 3 to 4 minutes, then add to a large bowl.
Remove the skin from the squash and mash the flesh together with the Parmesan, then season.
Dust a clean surface with flour and roll your pastry into a 30 centimetres by 45 centimetres rectangle, about 5mm thick and cut into two equal pieces.
Beat the egg, then brush the longer side of each piece of pastry with the egg.
Place your filling down the centre, then fold the pastry over, using egg to seal the edges (press down with a fork).
Cut each into 8 equal-sized pieces and place on a lined baking tray.
Brush with the egg and bake for 20 to 25 minutes until crisp and golden.
Start by sterilising three 500 millimetres jars.
Cut the feta into 2 centimetres cubes, peel the lemon zest into thick strips with no pith, and pick the thyme leaves.
Place the feta into the first jar, layering it up with strips of lemon zest, thyme leaves, a little sea salt and a good pinch of black pepper.
Top up oil to cover, then seal the jar.For the olives, use a pestle to split and slightly crush the coriander seeds in a mortar.
Add to the second jar and squeeze in the lemon juice.
Add the olives, chilli and bay leaves.
Season with a little sea salt and a good pinch of black pepper.
Top up with oil to cover, then seal the jar.Char the peppers over a direct flame on the hob until blackened.
Pop in a bowl and cover with clingfilm for 5 minutes.
Add the unpeeled garlic to the third jar with the rosemary, a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper, and the vinegar.
When the peppers are cool enough to handle, peel off the skin, deseed and slice into 4cm-wide strips.
Add to the jar and gently mix.
Top up with oil to cover, then seal the jar.
All will keep for up to 2 months unopened; once open, refrigerate and use within 2 weeks.
Remove the skin from the roasted squash, then deseed and finely chop the chilli.
Pick and finely chop the rosemary leaves, discarding the stalks, and finely grate the Parmesan.In a large bowl, mash the squash with a fork, then whisk in the egg, milk and flour.
Add the chilli, rosemary, Parmesan and a grating of nutmeg.
Heat a little oil in a frying pan and, once hot, add half a ladle of mixture per pancake into the pan.
Cook for 1 to 2 mins on each side, until golden and crisp.
Keep warm in a low oven until ready, then serve with and extra grating of Parmesan and some rocket.
Scrub and dice the potatoes.
Cook in boiling water for 15 minutes, or until softened, then drain and mash with the milk.
Peel and finely chop the onion, deseed and finely slice the pepper and trim and dice the courgette.
Place a large pan on a medium heat, add the oil and onion, peel and crush in the garlic, then add the bouillon powder (see tip).
Fry for 5 minutes, or until softened.
Add the pepper and courgette, then drain and add the chickpeas.
Pour in the tomatoes, add the dried herbs, then bring to the boil.
Reduce the heat low and simmer for a further 10 minutes, or until the veg is tender.Transfer the filling to a 25 centimetres by 30 centimetres ovenproof dish and top with the mashed potato.
Scratch the top of the pie with a fork to create texture, then sprinkle over the sunflower seeds.
If the potato and filling are both still hot, just grill the top of the pie before serving.
Otherwise heat the pie through in a hot oven at 180°C /350 Fahrenheit or  gas 4 for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden.
 For more information on stages of complementary feeding, click here.
Wash, trim and cut the leek into one centimetre rounds, and trim, peel and dice the carrot.
Heat the oil in a medium pan on a medium heat, add the leek and cook for 5 minutes or until softened, then add the carrots along with 200 millimetres water.
Bring to the boil, cover with a lid, then reduce to a simmer for about 30 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender.
Drain and add the chickpeas and allow to warm through for 5 minutes, then remove from the heat.
Leave to cool slightly, then stir through the yoghurt.
Mash until fairly smooth, with some soft lumps, then serve.
For more information on stages of complementary feeding, click here.
Peel and finely chop the onion.
Trim and dice the courgette and aubergine, then deseed and dice the pepper.
Core and dice the tomato.Heat the oil in a large pan on a medium heat, add the onion and fry for 5 minutes, or until softened.
Add the courgette, aubergine, pepper and tomato, then pour in 120 millimetres water and add the tomato purée.
Bring to the boil, then reduce to a low heat and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender and sauce has thickened, stirring occasionally.
Peel and dice the potato.
Cook in boiling water for 15 minutes, or until cooked through, then drain and mash with the milk.
Chop the ratatouille as required, then allow both the mash and the ratatouille to cool before serving.
For more information on stages of complementary feeding, click here.
Peel and finely slice the onions, peel and finely chop the garlic, then deseed and finely slice the chillies.Place the onions, garlic and chillies in a large pan over a low heat with a little oil and sweat down for 8 to 10 minutes, or until soft but not coloured.
Add the cranberries, sugar, vinegar and 50 millimetres of water.
Simmer gently for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the berries are soft and breaking down but still just holding their shape.
Gently mash a little and cook for a further 15 minutes, or until thickened and jammy.
Season with sea salt, black pepper and a drizzle of oil, then allow to cool.
Spoon into sterilised jars and tuck in when it’s cooled.
It keeps for 1 week.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Grease a 24 centimetres loose-bottomed tart tin with a little olive oil.Peel, deseed and chop the squash into one centimetre chunks, then toss onto a baking tray with a drizzle of oil and sea salt and black pepper, and roast for 20 to 25 minutes.
Peel and roughly chop the onion and garlic, and roughly chop the apricots and cranberries.
Bash the cumin and coriander seeds, and zest the lemon.
Pick and roughly chop the coriander, then roughly chop the chestnuts.In a frying pan over a medium heat, cook the onion in a little oil for 10 minutes or until soft and sweet.
Add the garlic and cook for another minute or so, until beginning to soften, then add all the spices and a little more oil.
Cook for a couple more minutes, until it’s all smelling great.
Remove from the heat and set aside.Blitz the pistachios and almonds until they’re ground to a coarse powder with a little texture.
Tip into a bowl with the quinoa or rice and dried fruit, then add the lemon zest, coriander and chestnuts.
Beat and stir in the eggs (or chia seed mix) and the onion.Take the squash out of the oven and mash half of it with the back of a fork, leaving the other half in chunks, then stir this into the mixture too.
Pile the lot into the prepared tin and press down to flatten.
Cook in the oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until set.While it’s cooking, make the tomato sauce.
Peel and chop the garlic and onion.
Place a large saucepan over a medium heat.
Prick the chillies and add to the pan with a little oil, the cinnamon stick, sprigs of thyme, garlic, onion and turmeric.
Cook for a minute or two, then add the plum tomatoes.
Fill the tin with water and pour that in too, stirring to break up the tomatoes.
Season with salt, stir through the balsamic vinegar and bring to the boil.
Reduce the heat and simmer for 20 minutes.If using the feta, place it in a bowl, zest over the lemon, add the coriander seeds, some black pepper and a good drizzle of oil and leave it to marinate.Once the sauce is thick and glossy, pick out the chilli, cinnamon and thyme.
Set aside.
Take the nut roast out of the oven, then carefully remove it from the tin and place it on a serving platter.Scatter the loaf with the feta (if using), and the pomegranate seeds.
Serve with the sauce in a side bowl.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Finely chop the spring onions, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Chop the chillies.Heat a good glug of oil in a large, ovenproof pan.
Add the spring onions, garlic and bay leaves, and cook over a low heat for 10 minutes, until the spring onions are soft and sweet.
Bash the cardamom pods and the coriander and cumin seeds with a pestle and mortar and add to the pan with the turmeric, chopped chilli and a couple of hearty pinches of sea salt.
Stir for 3 to 4 minutes over a medium heat, until the spices are fragrant.
Increase the heat, add the rice and a little more oil if needed and stir to coat in the spices.
Pour over about 800 millimetres of cold water – you want it to come about one centimetre above the rice.
Pop the lid on and put the pan into the oven for 25 minutes.While the rice is cooking, put the root veg on a baking tray, drizzle with oil, season and pop into the oven to warm up for the last 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, poach your eggs.
Put a shallow pan of water over a medium heat, add a splash of vinegar and, once simmering, break in the eggs and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
Once the veg and rice are done, remove them from the oven and stir them together.
Mix through the greens, herbs and lime juice.
Pile the mixture into bowls, top each one with a poached egg, and serve with the pomegranate seeds scattered on top.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Using a pestle and mortar, grind the fennel and coriander seeds, and chilli flakes until fine.
Place the cauliflower on a sheet of tin foil, rub in half of the ground spices and 1 tablespoon of oil, and season with sea salt and black pepper.
 Wrap the cauliflower in the foil, pop it on a roasting tray and bake for 30 minutes, or until tender, removing the foil for the last 15 minutes to give it a gnarly crust.
Remove and set aside.Peel and finely grate the ginger and 6 cloves of garlic.
In a bowl, combine two-thirds of the ginger, the grated garlic and the remaining half of the spice mixture.
Make an incision in each aubergine with a small sharp knife, then rub the ginger mixture into each one, along with a drizzle of oil.
Place the aubergines in a small roasting tray and cook in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until softened and starting to split.
Set aside.
Make your spice blend.
Split the cardamom pods, add the seeds to a mortar with all the other ingredients, then grind well.
Peel and finely chop the onions, then deseed and roughly chop the chillies and tomatoes, keeping them separate.
Peel and finely slice the remaining 3 cloves of garlic.Place a large pan over a medium heat and toast the ground spices for 1 minute, or until aromatic.
Stir in 1 tablespoon of oil, followed by the onions, green chillies, sliced garlic, and the remaining ginger.
Cook for 10 minutes, or until the onion and garlic are softened and coloured.
 Add the tomatoes, cinnamon stick and 200 millimetres of water and let it simmer over a low heat for 30 minutes.In a blender, blitz the cashews with 4 tablespoons of water until you have a smooth paste, then stir this into your curry.
Cook for 5 minutes, or until thick and fragrant.
For the tempeh, peel and finely slice the garlic, then add to a frying pan over a medium heat with a splash of oil, the curry leaves and mustard seeds.
Fry for 1 minute, or until crisp, then drain on kitchen paper.Chop the roasted cauliflower into florets and stir into the curry along with the aubergines.
Top the curry with the tempeh and shaved coconut.
Halve the pomegranate and bash it, cut side down, with a wooden spoon so the seeds come tumbling out.
Scatter the seeds over the curry, then serve with chapatis on the side.
Halve the lemongrass, peel the ginger, and peel and roughly chop the garlic and shallots.
Pick the coriander leaves and finely chop the stalks.Place the lemongrass, ginger, ground coriander, garlic, chillies (leave the seeds in, unless you don’t like it hot), shallots, lime leaves and coriander stalks in a food processor with a good drizzle of oil and blitz to a paste.
Add the soy sauce and blitz again.
Heat a little oil in a big saucepan and fry the paste for 1 minute, stirring all the time.
Stir in the stock and coconut milk.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 15 minutes.
Bring a pan of salted water to the boil.
Add the noodles and beansprouts and cook for 3 minutes.
Drain and refresh in cold water, then add to the soup with the veg to cook for the last 5 minutes.Transfer to bowls, top with coriander leaves, and cut the limes into wedges for squeezing over.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or gas 7.Trim and halve the brussels sprouts, then place on a large baking tray.
Add the oil, grate over the lemon zest, then sprinkle with the chilli flakes and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Mix with your hands to coat.Roast in the oven for 10 minutes – the sprouts should start to caramelise in places; when that happens, scatter over the Parmesan and roast for a further 15 minutes, until the cheese is crisp and golden brown, and the sprouts tender.
Peel and finely chop the shallots and garlic, and roughly chop all the fresh mushrooms.
Pick the thyme leaves and tear the stale bread into small chunks.Lightly toast the nuts in a dry frying pan, then roughly chop.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley.Cover the porcini with 300 millimetres of boiling water and leave aside to rehydrate.Heat the oil in a large, wide pan and add the shallot and garlic.
Cook over a medium heat, stirring occasionally, for 5 to 8 minutes or until the shallot is softened but not coloured.
Drain the soaked porcini over a bowl, reserving the liquid.
Add these and the rest of the mushrooms to the pan along with the bay and thyme leaves and cook until all the mushrooms are well softened.
If they release a lot of liquid, pour it onto the diced bread and carry on cooking.
When the mushrooms are tender and browned, tip the mixture into a large bowl and leave to cool completely.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Once the cooked mushroom mixture has cooled, add the chunks of bread, a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper, the pecans or hazelnuts and about half of the porcini’s reserved soaking liquid (make sure you pour it through a sieve first to stop any grit getting through).
Combine well.
If the stuffing seems too dry, just add a little more of the reserved porcini liquid.
Add most of the parsley and stir it through then tip the stuffing into a lightly greased baking dish of approximately 20 centimetres by 25 centimetres and cover with foil.
Place in the oven and bake for 35 minutes, then remove the foil and cook for a further 10 minutes.
Scatter over the rest of the chopped parsley before serving.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or gas 5 and line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.
Roll out the pastry on a lightly floured surface to about 5mm thick.
Using a small cutter or wine glass, about 6 centimetres across, cut out 12 rounds (you may need to re-roll the pastry).
Place the circles on the baking tray and prick their centres several times with a fork.
Beat the egg, then eggwash the circles.
Bake on the top shelf of the oven for about 12 minutes until puffed up, crisp and golden.


Roughly chop or tear the mushrooms, peel and finely slice the garlic, and crumble the chilli (if using).
Pick and roughly chop the parsley.Heat a lug of oil in a large pan and cook the mushrooms, garlic and chilli (if using), until golden.
Off the heat, squeeze in the lemon juice, then add the crème fraîche.
Season well and fold through the parsley.
If the mushrooms are too dry, add a splash of water to loosen the sauce.
For the vol-au-vents, cut a very thin layer off the top of each circle and use your knife to carefully hollow out a hole in each one.Fill with the creamy mushrooms and serve – you can pop the pastry lids back on, if you wish.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or gas 4.
Halve and core the pears (you’ll be using 1 for decoration), and place them all cut-side up in an ovenproof dish.
Sprinkle over ½ a teaspoon of cinnamon and the caraway seeds and pop in the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, until they’re just browning at the edges and the flesh is soft.
Allow to cool.Place the walnuts and pine nuts on a baking tray and toast in the oven for 4 to 5 minutes – the pine nuts won’t take long to turn golden, so keep an eye on them.
Set aside a few toasted pine nuts for serving.Once the pears have cooled, scoop most of the flesh out of 4 of the halves, leaving just enough so the sides don’t collapse.
Chop up 4 other roasted pear halves and pop in a food processor with the scooped-out pear flesh and toasted nuts.
Add the stem ginger and the rest of the cinnamon and blitz.
You want a paste that’s quite textured, not totally smooth.Divide the pear mixture between the scooped-out pear skins.
Peel and core the reserved pear, slice it thinly lengthways and arrange a couple of slivers on top of each stuffed pear.Decorate with a few chopped toasted pine nuts and serve, warmed through or cold.
It’s great with a little peppery salad, like rocket leaves, on the side.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Deseed the squash and place on a roasting tray, drizzle with the oil, scatter over the chilli flakes and strip over the thyme leaves.
Roast for 45 minutes, or until soft.
Allow to cool a bit, then spoon out the flesh and discard the skin, then place in a bowl.Crumble the Stilton and chop the walnuts, then add to the bowl along with the breadcrumbs.
Mix to combine, then set aside to cool.
Beat the egg.
Roll out the puff pastry to 18 centimetres by 60cm, then cut into 2 long thin strips.
Lay half the squash mix down the centre of each strip and brush the long edges with beaten egg, then fold over lengthways and press together to seal.
Turn the rolls so the join is underneath, then cut into 5 centimetres pieces and place on baking sheets lined with parchment.
Brush the tops with beaten egg, sprinkle with sesame seeds and bake for 35 minutes, till puffed up and golden.
Start by chopping the carrots, parsnip and potato.
Trim, wash and chop the leek, peel and chop the onion, and core and chop the apple.
Peel and crush the garlic.Throw the veg and apple into a large pan with the garlic and a good lug of oil and mix it all up.
Season to taste (minimally, if cooking for young children).
Cook on a medium heat for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, or till the veg start to soften.
Add 2 litres of water to the pan, bring to the boil, then turn down to a simmer.
Cook for 30 minutes, until all the veg are soft.
Blitz with a hand blender until smooth, then sprinkle with sweet paprika.
Delicious served with buttered toast.
Preheat the grill to high.
Halve and destone the peaches, then place in a snug-fitting baking dish, drizzle with the brandy, grate over some orange zest and squeeze in a little orange juice.

Halve the vanilla pod lengthways, scrape out the seeds and add to a bowl with the sugar, then mix to combine.Sprinkle the sugar over the peaches, then add the bay leaves and vanilla pod to the dish and gently toss everything together.Arrange the peaches in a single layer, cut-side up.
Place the dish under the grill for 5 to 6 minutes, or until the fruit is golden and the juices bubbling.
Smash the biscotti and sprinkle on top, then serve with crème fraîche.
Cook the wild rice according to the packet instructions, then drain and leave to cool on a large tray.Peel the onions, then using a mandolin (or a food processor with a fine slicing attachment), finely slice them.
Transfer to a bowl and add the red wine vinegar.
Scrunch them together and set aside.

Using a mandolin, shred the sprouts and radishes, then, in a bowl, dress them with the lemon juice and a pinch of sea salt, massaging the flavours into the veg with your hands.
Set aside.Pick and finely chop the herb leaves and pop them into a large serving bowl.
Add the rice, onions and lemony veg as well as the cranberries or raisins, and toss together.
Drizzle over some oil and season,  then  stir and serve.
Rinse, then cook the rice according to the packet instructions.
Drain, rinse with cold water and set aside.
Peel and finely slice the onion.
Peel, deseed and cut the squash or pumpkin into 2 to 3 centimetres chunks.
Finely slice the chillies, removing the seeds and pith, if you like it milder.Roughly chop the chestnuts, peel and finely slice the garlic and roughly chop the kale.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley.Heat a splash of oil in a large lidded frying pan over a medium heat and fry the onion for 5 minutes, until beginning to soften.
Tip in the squash or pumpkin, chillies, cinnamon and cloves, then add a splash of water.
Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the squash begins to soften.
Remove the lid, add the chestnuts and cook for another 5 minutes.
Stir in 
the garlic, cooked rice and kale, season and cook, uncovered, for 5 minutes, until the rice has a caramelised base and the squash is cooked through.
Whack up the heat for a couple of minutes, stirring the rice and letting the bottom crisp up even more.
Remove from the heat and sprinkle over the parsley.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or gas 6.
Rinse and dry the kale leaves before removing most of the centre stalk, leaving long, thin pieces of kale.Toss the kale in the oil, then sprinkle with the sugar, cinnamon and ½ tablespoon of sea salt.Arrange the leaves in a single layer on a couple of baking trays and bake for 5 minutes, until crisp.
Transfer the kale to a rack to cool, then serve.
To make the crispy onions, peel and thinly slice the shallots or onion into rings.
Heat a good splash of oil in a pan and slowly fry the shallots for 15 minutes, until golden.
Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside on kitchen paper to crisp up.Trim away the cauliflower stalk, then boil the cauliflower whole in a pan of salted water over a medium heat for 3 minutes, then drain and leave to cool.
Next rub in the chilli, sea salt and black pepper, and drizzle with a little oil.
Leave to one side.For the pesto, toast the nuts in a dry pan over a low heat until golden, then either bash with a pestle and mortar or blitz in a food processor until combined.
Pick and add the herbs with a pinch of salt and blitz or bash again until you have a thin paste.
Season with lemon juice, oil, salt and pepper, and set aside.Heat the cannellini beans and a couple of tablespoons of their liquid in a pan over a low heat for 10 minutes, or until warmed through.
Mash and stir through 1 to 2 tablespoons of the pesto.
Preheat a griddle pan over a high heat.
Quarter the cauliflower and char on the griddle for 6 to 8 minutes, or until golden and charred.
Divide the mash between four plates and top with a wedge of cauliflower, a drizzle of the herb oil and the crispy shallots.
Shred the leftover cooked sprouts and greens.
Peel and finely chop the garlic, and finely grate the lemon zest.
Pick and finely chop the dill.
Put the shredded sprouts and greens into a bowl.
Crumble in the cheese and add the garlic, dill and lemon zest.
Add a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then mix well.
Crack in the eggs and mix to combine.Place a large frying pan over a medium heat and add a generous lug of oil.
Once the oil is hot, carefully lower in heaped tablespoons of the mixture and flatten them out into little patties.
Fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the egg is beginning to set, then carefully flip and fry on the other side for 2 more minutes, until the egg is completely cooked.
Halve and serve the lemon on the side for squeezing over.
Make the risotto base first.
Soak the dried porcini in a little boiling water.
Trim and finely chop the celery, and peel and finely chop the onions and garlic.Heat a drizzle of oil in a large pan over a low heat.
Add the celery and onion, and cook for 10 minutes, until soft and sweet.
Add the garlic and cook for another minute or two.Turn up the heat and add the rice.
Cook for a minute or so until you hear it snap, crackle and pop, then add the wine and stir until absorbed.Drain the porcini, sieve and discard any grit from the liquid and add to the risotto pan, stirring until absorbed.
Finely chop the porcini and add to the pan.
Add the hot stock, a ladleful at a time, stirring each one in until it has been completely absorbed, about 20 minutes.
Stir as much as you can – this is what will make it creamy.
Once the rice is al dente (when you break into a grain, it should be almost cooked through but still have a white fleck in the middle), transfer to a bowl to cool.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.Fry the wild mushrooms in a little oil over a medium heat for 5 to 10 minutes, until they are just starting to crisp.Toast, then bash the nuts into coarse pieces, or quickly pulse in a food processor.Coarsely grate the Cheddar, finely chop the chilli and finely grate the lemon zest.
Pick and roughly chop all the herb leaves.
In a small bowl, beat the eggs.Once the risotto has cooled, add the breadcrumbs, Cheddar, chilli, lemon zest, eggs and chopped herbs, season, and mix well.
Butter a 20 centimetres loaf tin and line the bottom with greaseproof paper.
Cook the sugar and the cranberries in a pan over a medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes, then tip into the tin and spread evenly.
Pile on the nut-roast mixture and pack it down with the back of a spoon.
Cover the whole thing with foil and bake for 45 minutes, then remove the foil and cook for a further 15 minutes.
Once it’s golden brown on top, remove the nut roast from the oven and leave to settle for 10 minutes.
Use a knife to loosen the tin, then place your serving platter or board on top.
Cover your hand with a tea towel and courageously flip the whole lot over, then carefully lift the tin off.
Serve with all the trimmings.
Deseed and chop all the chillies, then peel and roughly chop the garlic.Put all the ingredients in a saucepan, starting with just 2 tablespoons of palm sugar.
Add 150 millimetres water and bring to the boil then simmer gently for 10 minutes, or until the chilli and garlic are quite soft and the liquid has reduced by about half.
Use a stick blender or a liquidiser to whiz the sauce until smooth, then taste and add more palm sugar, if needed.
Return to a low heat to cook for 5 to 10 minutes, until the sauce is a deep red and slightly reduced.
Add a splash of water if you want it thinner.
Preheat oven to 150 Celsius or gas 2-3.Scrub the parsnip, carrots and beets.
Using a mandolin or the thick slicer on a grater, slice each of the veg at an angle into long pieces – they really shrink in the oven.
Place veg slices in a single layer on baking trays – keep the veg separate.
Place the carrots and beetroots in the oven for about 2 hours; after 30 minutes add the parsnips.
Remove when dry, crisp and cooked.
Crush the salt, fennel seeds and chilli in a mortar (or a coffee grinder), and sprinkle over your crisps.
Serve hot or cold.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Wash and dry the whole squash, then place on a baking tray.
Pierce once or twice with the tip of a sharp knife, then bake in the oven for 1 hour 30 minutes, or until golden and very soft.
Scatter the pine nuts on a baking tray and toast them in the oven at the same time – they will only need a couple of minutes to turn golden, so make sure you keep an eye on them to prevent them burning.
Add a lug of oil to a frying pan, then pick in the sage leaves and fry until crisp.
Remove to piece of kitchen paper to drain, reserving the oil.
Lay the cooked squash on a board, remove the stalks and, using a knife and tongs, carefully slice the squash lengthways, down the middle.
Scoop out and discard the seeds.
Finely chop the chilli and crumble the chestnuts, then sprinkle over the squash halves with the cinnamon and a good pinch of black pepper.
Really mash and chop all the lovely toppings into the squash with your knife, so all the flavours go right through.
Serve the squash halves topped with the crisp sage, the toasted pine nuts, a drizzle of the reserved sage oil and a little balsamic vinegar (if using).
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or gas 7.
Rinse the kale under cold running water and dry the leaves very well, in a salad spinner if you have one.
Cut out the centre stalks, then cut the kale into 5 centimetres slices.
Place the kale on a baking tray and drizzle over the sesame and olive oils, scatter over the sesame seeds and season with sea salt and black pepper.
Roast in the oven for 20 minutes, turning halfway through cooking, until crisp at the edges.
Chop the pumpkin or squash into 3 centimetres chunks and cut the ginger into matchsticks.
Pick the coriander leaves and finely chop the stalks.Pour a good lug of groundnut oil into a large saucepan and place on a high heat.
Add the ginger, garlic, red chilli and shallots, then reduce to a medium heat.
Cook until golden, stirring occasionally, then add the mustard seeds, curry leaves, and coriander stalks and fry until the curry leaves go crispy.
Add the turmeric, tomatoes and coconut milk.
Bring to the boil, then add the pumpkin and chickpeas.
Reduce to a low heat, cover with a lid and simmer for 45 minutes.
Check occasionally and add a splash of water if it looks a bit dry.
When the time’s up, take the lid off and cook for a further 15 minutes or so until the sauce is lovely and thick.
Scatter with coriander leaves and serve with rice, naan bread and chutneys and dips on the side.
Pick the thyme leaves, then blitz all the ingredients in a food processor.Season to taste with sea salt and black pepper and serve with rye bread.
Place the mustard seeds, vinegar, white wine and 2 teaspoons of sea salt in a glass bowl and cover with clingfilm.
Set aside for 3 days.On the third day, place all the ingredients in a food processor, picking the tarragon leaves first, then blitz until smooth.
Add a few splashes of water to loosen, if needed.
Taste, adjust the seasoning if necessary, then store in a sterelised jar – it will keep in the fridge for up to a month.
Drizzle 1 tablespoon of oil in a large pan over a low heat.
Peel and slice the shallots, then cook gently, or until softened and golden brown.
Meanwhile, stone and chop the plums.Add the bay leaves and spices to the pan, fry for 1 minute then stir in the plums.
Add the sugar and finely grate in the orange zest.
Squeeze the orange juice into a measuring jug and top up to  450 millimetres with cider vinegar.
Add to the pan and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer slowly until most of the water has evaporated and the chutney is reduced and thick, stirring now and then as it cooks.Spoon the chutney into sterilised jars and seal straight away.
Leave to cool and store in a cupboard for a few weeks before eating.
Get 2 pans and add 1 tablespoon of sea salt to each.
Add the red wine vinegar and thyme to one pan and the white wine vinegar and bay to the other.
Keeping the colours separate, peel and slice the onions using a food processor, or you can slice them finely with a knife.
Place both pans over a high heat and bring to the boil.
Place the red onions in the pan with red wine vinegar and the white onions in the other pan.
Reduce the heat to medium and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, pushing the onions down with the back of a wooden spoon to stop them rising to the surface.
As soon as the onions have softened, use a slotted spoon to transfer them into sterilised jars.
Ladle over the vinegar, then close the lids and leave to cool.
These can be eaten straight away, but if you leave them for at least 2 weeks they’ll taste even more amazing.
Peel and finely slice the onions, then peel and grate the garlic and ginger.
Peel, deseed and chop the pumpkin into 2 centimetres chunks, then halve and deseed the chillies.
Put aside for later.Drizzle 2 tablespoons of oil into a large saucepan over a high heat.
When the oil is smoking hot, add mustard and fenugreek seeds, then stir in the onion, garlic and ginger.Reduce the heat to medium and cook, stirring, until the mixture is dark brown and smelling fantastic.
Add the ground spices, cook for 1 further minute, then add the tomatoes, breaking them up with the back of a wooden spoon.
Bring to the boil and simmer gently for a few minutes.Finely grate the lime zest into the pan.
Squeeze the lime juice into a measuring jug and top up to 500 millimetres with cider vinegar.
Pour into the pan, add the pumpkin and chillies, and bring back to the boil.
Cook for a further 10 minutes, or until the pumpkin is just cooked.
Lift the pumpkin out with a slotted spoon and set aside.
Add 1 ½ teaspoons of sea salt and the sugar to the pan, and continue cooking until the liquid has reduced and thickened.
Fold the pumpkin back into the pan, then spoon the pickle into sterilised jars.
Seal the jars straight away and leave to cool.
The pickle will be ready to eat in a few weeks time.
Wash and finely chop the lemons, discarding the pips, then deseed and finely slice the chilli.Heat the oil in a small pan over a low heat and add the mustard and cumin seeds.
When they start to pop, throw in the curry leaves.
Fry for a minute or so, until they’re nice and crisp.
Add the lemons, sugar, chilli and a pinch of sea salt.
Turn up to a medium heat and cook for around 10 minutes, or until thick, sticky and the lemons have softened.
Leave to cool, then store in a sterilised jar in the fridge, where it will keep for up to a week.
Delicious served with poppadoms, plain yoghurt and a red onion and tomato salad.
Drain and cut the preserved lemons in half, removing any seeds.
Chop finely and set aside.
Finely chop the chillies, and pick and finely chop the coriander.Heat a saucepan to a medium heat, and add a splash of oil.
Add the mustard seeds and when they pop, add the ginger, chilli, curry paste and tomato purée.
Stir and fry for a moment before adding the chopped lemon, the zest and juice from the limes and the coriander.
Season, cook for a minute, transfer to a bowl and allow to cool before serving with poppadoms and a cold beer.
Peel and slice the shallot lengthways.
Put the cider vinegar, shallot, bay leaves, spices and 150 millimetres water in a stainless-steel saucepan along with a few good pinches of sea salt.
Bring to the boil then simmer for 5 minutes or so to give the aromatics time to flavour the liquid.
Peel and cut the celery into 5 centimetres chunks.
Drop the celery into the pickling liquid and simmer, covered, for about 10 minutes, or until the celery is heated through but still with a good bit of crunch; this really depends on how thick the stalks are.
While the celery is poaching in the pickle, crush the olives gently with your thumb to flatten them down to the stone.
Don’t remove the stones, but drop the squashed olives in with the celery for the last minute of cooking.
Pour the pan’s contents through a sieve set over a bowl (discard the pickling liquid or use once again) and leave to drain and cool.
Refrigerate until you want to serve, then tip into a bowl and toss with a splash of olive oil, sea salt and a little pepper.
Place the beets in a pan of salted water and bring to the boil.
Simmer for 30 minutes until cooked, then drain and leave to cool.
You should be able to slip off the skins once they're cool enough to handle.
Halve or quarter any big ones, leave smaller ones whole.
In a separate pan, add the vinegars and sugar.
Halve the chillies lengthways and add to the pan along with a squeeze of lemon juice, the coriander seeds and a pinch of sea salt, then place over a high heat.
Bring to the boil, stirring until the sugar dissolves.
Spoon the beets snugly into jars, then pour the pickling liquid on top.
Add a chilli to each jar, seal, and leave for a few days to infuse.
Boil the vinegar with the sugar, peppercorns, allspice berries, bay leaf and thyme for a couple of minutes, remove from the heat and allow to cool.Peel and finely slice the onion, deseed and finely slice the peppers and slice up all the chillies.Place the chillies and vegetables in a bowl and pour over the vinegar.
Stir, and leave overnight.
Stir again before serving.
You can store any leftover pickle in a sealed jar in the fridge.
This recipe requires you to hunt out a jar of really good-quality chickpeas – they have much better flavour, so will guarantee an amazing result.
Tip the jar of chickpeas, juice and all, into a blender.
Add the tahini, yoghurt and a pinch of cayenne pepper, then peel and add the garlic.
Squeeze in the lemon juice, then blitz until smooth.Taste and season to perfection, then serve with an extra sprinkling of cayenne.
Pair a portion of houmous with 80g of raw seasonal crunchy veg crudités for a great snack.
Peel and finely chop the onions and garlic, pick the coriander leaves and finely chop the stalks, finely chop the jalapeño, and roughly chop the tomatoes.
Place a large non-stick saucepan over a medium heat and pour in a lug of oil.
Add the onions, coriander stalks and jalapeño and sauté for 10 minutes, until softened but not coloured.
Stir in the coriander seeds, fry for a couple more minutes, then add the lentils.
Stir in 800 millimetres boiling water and bring back to the boil.
Season well, reduce the heat, pop on the lid and simmer for 40 minutes, until the lentils are cooked and beginning to break down.
Blacken the peppers by either placing them directly on a gas flame, or griddling them in a griddle pan, turning regularly until blackened all over.
Pop them in a bowl, cover with clingfilm and let stand.
After about 5 minutes the peppers should be ready, so flake away the blistered skin and remove the stalk and seeds.
Slice the flesh into thin strips and leave to one side.
Place the chipotle chilli in a small bowl and pour in just enough boiling water to cover.
After a few minutes, it should have softened; carefully remove from the bowl and finely chop.Place a medium-sized pan over a medium heat and pour in a lug of olive oil.
Add the garlic and all the chillies and fry for 1 minute, then add the peppers and paprika.
Fry for a few more minutes, then add the tomatoes.
Season well and gradually bring everything to a simmer.
Leave to bubble away gently for 10 minutes, until you have a thick and rich tomato sauce.
Add a splash of red wine vinegar and set aside.
Chop the coriander leaves, then stir through.When your lentils are cooked, roughly purée with a stick blender, then pop back over a medium heat with a lug of oil.
Fry for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, so you end up with crispy fried lentils.
Place a frying pan over a medium heat and add a splash of oil.
Crack in the eggs, one at a time, and cook to your liking.
Slice the avocados and dress with the juice of 1 lime.
Cut the remaining lime into quarters.Serve the refried lentils with a dollop of the red pepper salsa, dressed avocado and topped with a fried egg and a wedge of lime.
Top and tail the gooseberries, discarding the hard ends, and place in a large saucepan.
If you’re using elderflowers, tie them up in a piece of muslin and secure with string, then add to the saucepan.
If using cordial, add to the pan with 150 millimetres water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for about 30 minutes, or until the fruit is tender and has broken down nicely.
Remove from the heat, squeeze any liquid out of the elderflower parcel and discard.
Split the vanilla pod lengthways and scrape out the seeds.
Add the sugar and the vanilla pod and seeds to the pan and boil over a high heat for about 10 minutes, skimming off any foam that forms on the surface.
Pour through a strainer into sterilised jars and leave to cool before putting sealing with the lids.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Halve and deseed the squash, then carefully chop into 3 centimetres chunks.
In a large roasting tray, toss and massage it with 1 teaspoon of oil, the ground coriander and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Deseed the peppers and cut into 3 centimetres chunks, then, in a separate tray, toss and massage them with 1 teaspoon of oil and the smoked paprika.
Place both trays in the oven for 35 minutes, or until softened.Meanwhile, peel and finely chop one quarter of an onion and put aside, then roughly chop the rest and place in a large casserole pan on a low heat with 1 tablespoon of oil.
Crush in the garlic, add the bay leaves and a good splash of water and cook for 20 minutes, or until soft, stirring regularly.
Tip in the beans, juice and all, then half-fill each empty tin with water, swirl and pour into the pan.
Simmer until the time is up on the squash and peppers, then stir both into the pan.
Trim, finely slice and add the okra, and simmer for a further 20 minutes, or until the feijoada is dark and delicious, loosening with an extra splash of water, if needed.
Meanwhile, cook the rice according to the packet instructions, then drain.To make a quick salsa, deseed the tomatoes, then finely chop with as much chilli as you like and most of the coriander leaves.
Scrape into a bowl with the reserved finely chopped onion and toss with the lime juice, then season to perfection.
Remove 4 portions of feijoada, bag them up and once completely cool, freeze for a rainy day, when you’ll be really grateful it’s there.
Serve the remaining feijoada with the rice and salsa, a spoonful of yoghurt and a sprinkling of the remaining coriander leaves.
Wrap the tofu in a clean tea towel, then squeeze and wring it out to remove the excess liquid (about 4 tablespoons should come out – it’s messy, but really important to do this for great burger texture later).
Place the tofu in a bowl, scraping it off the tea towel.
Crack in the egg, then add the breadcrumbs and Marmite.
Mix and scrunch together really well with clean hands, then shape into 4 even-sized patties that’ll fit nicely in your buns once cooked.
Roughly chop the tomatoes and put into a dry non-stick frying pan on a high heat with a pinch of black pepper, a splash of water and the vinegar.
Squash the tomatoes with a potato masher, cook for 10 to 15 minutes, or until thick and delicious, then tear in the basil leaves and season to perfection (I sometimes add a pinch of dried red chilli flakes too, for a kick).
If you want to plump up your buns, pop them into a warm oven for a few minutes.Meanwhile, finely slice or prep all the salad veg.
Next, pick the basil leaves into a blender and blitz with all the other dressing ingredients and a pinch of salt and pepper until super-smooth.
Place 2 teaspoons of oil in a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat.
Pick the rosemary leaves into the pan in four piles, place the patties on top and cook for 3 minutes on each side, or until golden.
Slice or grate the cheese, place on the patties, reduce the heat to low, then cover and leave to melt for 3 to 4 minutes.
Spread the tomato sauce into the buns, then sandwich the cheesy burgers and sliced gherkins inside.
Toss the salad with half the dressing (save the rest for another day), serve alongside the burgers and enjoy – totally awesome.
Prep your ingredients before you start – peel and cut the onions into wedges, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Trim the aubergines and courgettes, deseed the peppers and chop into 2.5 centimetres chunks.
Roughly chop the tomatoes.
Pick the basil leaves and set aside, then finely slice the stalks.Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large casserole pan or saucepan over a medium heat, add the chopped aubergines, courgettes and peppers (you may need to do this in batches) and fry for around 5 minutes, or until golden and softened, but not cooked through.
Spoon the cooked veg into a large bowl.To the pan, add the onion, garlic, basil stalks and thyme leaves with another drizzle of oil, if needed.
Fry for 10 to 15 minutes, or until softened and golden.
Return the cooked veg to the pan and stir in the fresh and tinned tomatoes, the balsamic and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Mix well, breaking up the tomatoes with the back of a spoon.
Cover the pan and simmer over a low heat for 30 to 35 minutes, or until reduced, sticky and sweet.
Tear in the basil leaves, finely grate in the lemon zest and adjust the seasoning, if needed.
Serve with a hunk of bread or steamed rice.
Place the frozen veg in a food processor and let them defrost for around 15 minutes.Add the coriander (stalks and all), flour, cumin and cayenne, season well with sea salt and black pepper, then blitz to a rough paste.
Pulse in the sesame and sunflower seeds until combined.Divide the mixture and shape into 4 equal-sized patties, roughly 2 centimetres thick.
Place on a lightly flour-dusted tray, turning them in the flour to coat.
Firm up in the freezer for 10 minutes, then transfer to the fridge.Preheat the oven to 160 Celsius or 325 Fahrenheit or gas 3, while you make the vegan mayo and onion rings.For the mayo, trim and roughly chop the spring onions and chilli (deseeded if you like) and place in a blender.
Peel and add the garlic, along with the chickpeas, mustard, tomato paste, brandy, lemon juice and a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Blitz well to combine, then, with the blender still running, slowly pour in 4 to 5 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil until smooth and the same consistency as mayonnaise.For the onion rings, peel the onion and slice horizontally into 2cm-wide rounds.
Separate into rings, then place in a bowl with the vinegar and a pinch of salt.
Leave for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, combine the flour and baking powder in a bowl, then gently whisk in the ale until smooth, thick and coating the back of a spoon nicely.Place a medium, deep pan over a high heat, pour in the sunflower or sunseed oil and allow to heat up.
To test if the oil is hot enough, drop a piece of bread into the pan – if it floats to the surface, sizzles and turns golden, it’s about right.
Drain the onions, dust a handful of them with flour until lightly coated, then dip them into the batter.
Remove with a slotted spoon and allow any excess batter to drip off, then carefully lower into the hot oil.Cook for around 1 minute, or until golden and crisp, turning halfway with the slotted spoon.
Transfer to a double layer of kitchen paper to drain, then repeat with the remaining onion.When you’re ready, cook the burgers in 1 tablespoon of oil in a large frying pan on a medium heat for 10 to 12 minutes, or until golden and cooked through, turning halfway and pressing down with a fish slice to get them nice and crispy.Transfer to a baking tray, then pop into the oven while you prepare the remaining ingredients.Finely shred the lettuce and mix with half the vegan mayo (keep the rest in the fridge for up to 2 days).
Slice the tomatoes and place on a plate lined with kitchen paper.
Sprinkle over a little salt and pick over the basil leaves.
Top with another piece of kitchen paper and pat lightly to remove any excess water.Slice the gherkins lengthways, then halve and destone the avocado.
Scoop out the flesh, cut into slices, then squeeze over the lime juice.Halve the burger buns and toast on a hot griddle pan or under the grill.Once ready, pile the dressed lettuce and sliced tomatoes and basil on to the burger bun bases.
Pop the burgers on top, snip over the cress, then layer over the avocado, gherkins and crispy onion rings.Add a good squeeze of ketchup to the burger bun lids, place them on top, squeezing down gently, then tuck in.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Peel the garlic, then add to a pestle and mortar with the paprika and half the thyme leaves.
Bash well to a rough paste, then muddle in 2 tablespoons of olive oil and season.
Zest the lemon into a separate bowl and set aside.Trim the outer cauliflower leaves.
Trim away and discard the stalk so the cauliflower can sit flat, then cut a cross into the base.
Rub the paprika paste all over the cauliflower, then place in a medium casserole pan.
Drizzle over the sherry and squeeze the lemon juice on top.
Cover and pop in the hot oven for around 1 hour 20 minutes, or until tender, removing the lid for the final 20 minutes.Remove the pan from the oven, then pour in the tomatoes, tearing or slicing them up into chunks.
Sprinkle over the lemon zest and pick over the remaining thyme leaves.
Return the pan to the oven for a further 10 minutes, or until the cauliflower is golden.Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium-low heat until golden, then leave to cool.
Once ready, take the pan out of the oven.
Scrunch over the toasted almonds, then pick, roughly chop and scatter the parsley leaves on top.
Drizzle with extra virgin olive oil, then carve up and serve with pilaf rice and steamed greens, or as part of a bigger spread.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Line a shallow baking tin (roughly 22 centimetres by 32cm) with greaseproof paper.Carefully halve the squash, scoop out and discard the seeds (there’s no need to peel it), then chop into rough 3 centimetres wedges.
Place into a large roasting tray with a splash of olive oil, the chilli flakes and a small pinch of salt and pepper.
Toss to coat.
Bash and add the garlic cloves to the tray, then pop in the hot oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until tender.
Meanwhile, place a frying pan over a medium heat, then add the almonds, fennel seeds and a pinch of salt.
Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until golden (keep an eye on them!), then bash well in a pestle and mortar.Take the squash out of the oven (keep the oven on for later).
Scoop the flesh into a food processor and discard the skin.
Squeeze the garlic cloves from their skins, add to the processor, then whiz to a smooth purée.Separate the egg yolks from the whites into two large bowls.
Grate the Parmesan over the yolks, then stir in the squash purée, flour, a good grating of nutmeg and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Whisk the egg whites to soft peaks in a separate bowl then carefully fold it into the squash mixture.
Transfer to the lined tin, spreading it out evenly.
Bake for 14 to 15 minutes, or until set and springy.
Meanwhile, heat a splash of olive oil in a large pan over a medium heat, then add the spinach and cook for around 2 minutes until wilted.
Leave to cool, squeeze out the excess moisture, then finely chop.
Turn out the roulade onto a large piece of greaseproof paper.
Carefully peel away and discard the top layer of greaseproof paper.
Crumble the goat’s cheese into a bowl, then add the ricotta, lemon zest and juice.
Deseed, finely chop and add the chilli, stir well, then season to taste with sea salt and black pepper.Spread the mixture over the sponge, leaving a rough 2 centimetres gap along one of the longest edges.
Scatter over the spinach and one-third of the almonds.Starting at the longest edge with no filling, carefully roll up the sponge, using the greaseproof paper to help you.
Scatter over the remaining nuts, then carve into thick slices and serve straight away with a fresh green salad.

Three obvious things are important on your journey to perfection – your choice of potato, your choice of oil and your choice of salt.
For me, the Maris Piper potato wins every time, and you want to use nice large ones.
On oil, sunflower and sunseed are very efficient, and many people swear by using groundnut oil.
But, if you’re after flavour, cooking chips in beef tallow (rendered beef fat you can get from your butcher) gives you better flavour and colour – the choice is yours.
Finally, on salt, being an Essex boy, in my house it has to be Maldon sea salt.So down to business:
chop 800g of Maris Piper potatoes into finger-sized chips, leaving the skin on – don’t be too exact.
Chip shops have massive industrial fryers, which you can’t recreate at home, so you need to use a large sturdy pan on a medium to high heat (unless you own a deep-fat fryer, of course).
Your oil should be 8 centimetres deep, but never fill your pan more than half full.
If you don’t have a thermometer, use a raw chip, and as it starts to float and fry the temperature should be about 140°C, which is perfect for blanching.
Use a large metal sieve to gently lower the chips into the pan for around 8 minutes, or until soft but not coloured, then remove to a tray to cool.Turn the heat up under the oil and return one blanched chip to the oil as a guide again.
Once it’s floating and golden the temperature should be about 180°C, which is perfect for frying and will give you chips with those all-important crispy outsides and fluffy middles.
At this stage you may want to cook your chips in 2-portion batches, so you don’t decrease the temperature of the oil too much or overcrowd the pan.
Fry the chips until beautifully golden, then remove to a bowl lined with kitchen paper, shake around a bit, season with sea salt and serve right away.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Peel and trim the parsnips, cutting them into batons approximately 5 centimetres long and one centimetre thick.
Finely chop the shallot and crush the garlic for the dressing.Bring the stock to the boil, add the lentils and bay leaf and simmer gently for 25–30 minutes, or until the lentils are just tender but still retain some bite.
Drain the lentils, discard the bay and set aside.Place the walnuts on a baking tray and toast in the oven until lightly browned and fragrant.
Remove the tray from the oven, carefully scoop out the walnuts, and add the parsnips in their place.
Drizzle with the olive oil and roast for 35 minutes until golden.Make the dressing by whisking together the walnut oil, vinegar, honey and mustard.
Season and stir in the garlic and shallots.In a bowl, toss together the lentils, walnuts, parsnips and dressing.
Place the watercress or rocket onto plates, pile on the lentil salad and shave over some vegetarian hard cheese.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Place the pine nuts on a baking tray and roast in the oven until golden, set aside to cool down.
 Trim the outer leaves and base from the cauliflower, then cut into small florets.
Trim the ends from the Brussels sprouts and slice in half, keeping hold of the loose leaves.
Cover the raisins in boiling water, leave for about 20 minutes, then drain and set aside.
 Place the cauliflower florets and sprouts in a large roasting pan, scatter over the saffron threads, then pour over 2 tablespoons each of the olive and garlic oils.
Season well and mix together gently.
Roast for 25 to 30 minutes, until the florets and sprouts are tender and starting to caramelise.
You may find that the loose sprout leaves start to really crisp up; don’t be alarmed, it adds a lovely smoky element to the overall flavour.
 Transfer the roasted cauliflower and sprouts to a serving bowl and add the pine nuts and raisins.
Season to taste, then give the whole mixture a gentle stir to ensure everything is combined and coated in the saffron oil, and then serve.
Begin by trimming the leaves from the beetroot, leaving about 2.5 centimetres of stalk on each one.
Place in a large saucepan and cover with water.
Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and leave to simmer gently, partially covered, for 40 minutes.
Drain and set aside.Finely grate the zest of one of the lemons into a bowl and squeeze in the juice from both, passing it through a fine sieve, to ensure no pith or pips remain.
Finely chop the dill and onion, and add to the bowl with the sugar, olive oil, capers and 1 teaspoon of sea salt.
Whisk all of the ingredients together until fully amalgamated.Run the beetroots under a cold tap and gently slide off the skins (they should peel off easily).
Trim the tops and bottoms from the beetroots and discard.
Then, using a mandolin or a sharp knife, slice the beetroot into very thin rounds.
Arrange the beetroot slices on a serving platter or individual plates and spoon over the dressing, letting it sink into every crevice of the beetroots.
Cover with clingfilm and chill in the fridge for at least 2 hours before serving.
Preheat the oven and a large baking tray to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Start by making the pastry.
Sift the flour and xanthan gum into a food processor, add the margarine, vegetable shortening and a pinch of sea salt, and pulse until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.
If you don’t have a food processor, place the ingredients in a large mixing bowl and cut together with the flat of a knife.Add 2 tablespoons of cold water, pulsing as you go (or stirring with a flat-bladed knife, if making the pastry by hand), until the mixture begins to pull together to form a dough.
Tip the pastry into a large bowl (or keep in the same bowl, if making it by hand) and, using your fingertips, pull together into a ball.
Knead lightly for about 2 minutes  or until smooth and elastic.
Shape the pastry into a ball and place between 2 large sheets of clingfilm, then roll it out into a circle slightly larger than the tart tin and no thinner than 3mm.
Peel off the uppermost sheet of clingfilm and carefully flip the pastry into a deep 23 centimetres tart tin.
Peel away the remaining clingfilm and gently press the pastry into the sides of the tin, filling in any cracks with pastry and patting it flat with your fingertips.
Trim the edges and set aside.Next, prepare the potatoes.
Peel and cut in half, quartering any large ones.
Place in a pan of salted water and bring to the boil.
The second the water begins to boil, time the potatoes, allowing them to cook for  4 minutes before removing from the heat and draining.
Shake the potatoes in the colander a little to chuff up the edges – this helps them crisp up.
Pour 8 tablespoons of the groundnut oil into a large roasting tin, tip in the potatoes and 1 heaped teaspoon of sea salt and firmly shake to coat evenly.
Set aside while you make the filling for the tart.Finely chop the onion, crush the garlic, then finely grate the carrots.
Trim the stalks from the chestnut mushrooms and slice into rounds.
Halve 240g of the chestnuts (the rest will be used for the topping).
 Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a heavy-based frying pan until hot, add the onions and cook gently over a low heat until softened.
Add the carrots, garlic, thyme and mushrooms, and fry gently until softened and all of the liquid from the mushrooms has been absorbed – around 10 minutes.
 Stir in the cream cheese and halved chestnuts and mix together gently until the cheese has softened and formed a creamy mixture.
Season to taste, spoon the filling into the pastry case then level the top.
Place the tart on the baking tray on the top shelf of the oven and the potatoes on the bottom shelf.
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until the pastry is crisp.
 Remove the tart from the oven, cover loosely in foil to retain its heat and set aside.
Move the potatoes to the top shelf of the oven and increase the temperature to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Continue roasting the potatoes for a further 25 to 30 minutes until golden and crisp.For the gravy, heat the walnut oil and redcurrant jelly in a small saucepan, stirring until melted and smooth.
Add the hot stock, bring to a simmer and stir in the cornflour.
Simmer gently and stir continuously until you have the desired consistency.
Set aside.Finally, tear the wild mushrooms into pieces, roughly chop the remaining chestnuts and finely chop the parsley.
Heat the garlic oil in a heavy-based frying pan until hot, add the mushrooms and fry gently until softened.
Stir in the chestnuts, cranberries and parsley, and spoon over the tart to form a decorative layer.
Reheat the gravy and serve with the tart and roast potatoes.
Preheat the oven to 180C/350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
For the nut roast crust, roughly chop the pistachios, then spread out on a baking tray with the seeds, then toast in the oven for 5 to 6 minutes.When the time's up, transfer to a food processor, along with the chestnut purée, suet and maple syrup, and blitz until the mixture comes together into a ball.
It will be very sticky to begin with, so stop and scrape the sides as you go.
Place a large sheet of baking parchment on a work surface and sit the dough on it.
Then, with lots of gluten-free flour on your hands and rolling pin, roll out the dough as thinly as possible (less than 5mm).
If you’re making individual tartlets, oil and flour four 10 centimetres loose-bottomed tart tins, then cut out the pastry to size.
Or, roll out the dough and cut to the size of a large baking tin, then transfer to the tin using a fish slice.
Prick the dough all over with a fork, cover with baking parchment, fill with baking beans or uncooked rice and bake blind for 12 to 15 minutes.
Leave to cool completely in the baking tray, as it will be quite delicate straight from the oven.
Keep the oven on.
For the topping, chop the sweet potato into cubes, then place on a baking tray.
Toss with a little oil, then bake for 25 minutes, or until soft.
Melt the butter in a frying pan over a medium heat, slice and add the mushrooms along with 1 teaspoon of cracked black pepper, and sauté for 6 to 8 minutes, until the mushrooms brown.
Blitz the roasted sweet potato in a food processor with the crème fraîche, nutmeg and ½ a tablespoon of cracked black pepper (or to taste) to a smooth, creamy consistency.
To assemble the tart, crumble the blue cheese over the base, arrange the sautéed mushrooms on top, then finish with the sweet potato mix.
Sprinkle with linseed, roughly chop and scatter over the pistachios followed by the sunflower seeds, then add a drizzle of rapeseed oil, and pop back in the oven for 6 to 7 minutes until it just starts to brown.
Serve hot with gravy and roast vegetables.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Spread out the nuts and seeds on a baking tray and toast in the oven for 5 to 6 minutes.
Transfer to a food processor, along with the chestnut purée, suet and maple syrup, and blitz until it comes together into a ball.
It will be sticky to begin with, so stop and scrape the sides as you go.
Place a large sheet of greaseproof paper on a work surface and sit the dough on it.
Then, with lots of gluten-free flour on your hands and rolling pin, roll out the dough as thinly as possible (less than 5mm).
If you’re making individual tartlets, oil and flour four 10 centimetres loose-bottomed tart tins, then cut the pastry to size.
For 1 large tart, roll out the dough and cut to the size of a large, shallow baking tin, and transfer to the tin using a fish slice.
Prick the pastry all over with a fork, cover with greaseproof paper, fill with baking beans or rice and bake blind for 12 to 15 minutes.
Leave to cool in the tray, and keep the oven on.
Meanwhile, slice the mushrooms.
Heat 1 tablespoon of rapeseed oil in a pan over a medium heat, then sauté the mushrooms for 6 to 8 minutes, until golden.
Remove and set aside.
In the same pan, heat 1 tablespoon of rapeseed oil and wilt the spinach (or heat through if frozen) along with the pepper.
Blitz the spinach, avocado flesh, tofu, nutmeg and lemon juice in a food processor until smooth.
Thinly slice the sweet potato using a vegetable peeler or mandolin, creating a pile of peelings.
Heat a drizzle of olive oil in a small pan, then fry the peelings over a high heat, turning occasionally, for 4 to 5 minutes, until just turning crisp.
Assemble the tart by spreading the spinach mixture over the baked and cooled tart base.
Lay the mushrooms on top, and decorate with the sweet potato slivers and a scattering of toasted pine nuts.
Eat at room temperature, or heat it up, if you like.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Finely dice the red pepper and onion, and put on a baking tray.
Drizzle over 2 teaspoons of rapeseed oil, sprinkle with black pepper and roast for about 15 minutes, until the vegetables start to brown.
Remove from the oven and allow to cool.
Grease and line a 30 centimetres by 20 centimetres baking tin with greaseproof paper.
For the base, pop the polenta, flours, baking powder, ½ teaspoon of sea salt, black onion seeds and capers in a mixing bowl and stir.
In a separate bowl, beat the eggs, milk and corn oil.
Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients, pour in the wet ingredients and stir with a spatula until well combined.
Spread the cooled onion and pepper mixture over the prepared baking tin.
Spoon the batter on top and carefully spread to the edges.
Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, or until golden brown.
Remove the tin from the oven and turn the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Let the bumble-o cool slightly, then spoon the onion marmalade on and spread it to the edges.
Grate over the cheeses, sprinkle over the basil and bake the bumble-o for another 10 to 15 minutes or until golden brown and bubbling.
Delicious with a green salad.
To make the filling, peel and finely slice the garlic and ginger.
Pick the coriander leaves and set aside, then finely slice the stalks.
Heat a splash of groundnut oil in a large frying pan over a medium-high heat, then add the garlic, ginger and coriander stalks.
Fry for around 3 minutes, or until golden.
Slice the mushrooms, then add to the pan for around 5 minutes, or until lightly golden brown.Add the vinegar, chilli sauce and soy, then cook for a further 5 minutes, or until the liquid has boiled and bubbled away and the mushrooms are golden brown and starting to caramelise.
Transfer to a bowl.
Trim and finely slice the spring onions, then add the white part to the bowl.
Deseed and finely slice the chilli, then add half to the bowl, reserving the rest for later.
Stir in 1 tablespoon of sesame oil, then set aside.Add the coconut milk, 2 heaped tins’ worth of flour and a good pinch of sea salt to a food processor.
Whiz to a dough, then transfer to a flour-dusted surface and roll into a thick sausage.
Cut into 12 equal-sized pieces, roll into balls, then flatten into rounds, roughly ½cm thick.
Equally divide the mushroom mixture between each of the 12 dough circles (you'll need roughly 1 tablespoon of filling per circle), making sure to leave a 2 centimetres gap around the edges.
Pull and fold the sides over the filling, pinching the edges together to seal.
Place upside-down (so the scruffy edges are underneath) in double-layered, lightly greased muffin cases and divide between two bamboo steamer baskets.
 Place a wok over a high heat, then fill with 1 litre of boiling water and pop the steamer baskets on top.
Reduce the heat to medium and steam for around 12 minutes, or until piping hot through and puffed up.Meanwhile, toast the sesame seeds in a small frying pan over a medium heat.
Once the buns are ready, sprinkle over the seeds and the reserved spring onions and chilli.
Tear the coriander leaves on top, then serve with hoisin sauce for dipping.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Peel and chop all the potatoes into rough 2 centimetres chunks.
Place the Maris Pipers into a large pan of cold salted water over a medium heat.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender, adding the sweet potatoes after 5 minutes.
Drain and leave to steam dry, then return to the pan with the margarine and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Mash until smooth, then set aside.Peel and finely slice the onion, carrots and 2 garlic cloves, then trim and finely slice the celery.
Bash the coriander seeds in a pestle and mortar until fine, then add it all to a medium pan over a medium heat with a good splash of oil.
Pick in the thyme leaves, then cook for around 10 minutes, or until softened.Meanwhile, roughly chop the mushrooms and sun-dried tomatoes, then add to the pan along with the vinegar and 2 tablespoons of the sun-dried tomato oil from the jar.Cook for a further 10 minutes, then add a splash of wine, turn up the heat, and allow it to bubble away.
Stir in the stock, lentils and chickpeas (juice and all), then leave it to tick away for 5 to 10 minutes, or until slightly thickened and reduced.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley leaves, then stir into the pan.
Season to taste, then transfer to a baking dish (roughly 25 centimetres by 30cm).Spread the mash over the top, scuffing it up with the back of a spoon.Finely slice the remaining garlic clove, then place into a bowl with the rosemary leaves, lemon zest, breadcrumbs and 1 tablespoon of oil.
Mix well, sprinkle over the mash, then place in the hot oven for around 10 minutes, or until piping hot through.
Place under the grill for a further 2 to 3 minutes, or until golden, then serve with seasonal greens.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Cook the macaroni according to the packet instructions in a large pan of salted boiling water.Meanwhile, peel and halve the onion, then place in a small pan over a medium heat with the milk.
Slowly bring to the boil, then remove from the heat.
Pick out and discard the onion, then set aside.
Melt the margarine in another pan over a medium heat, then add the flour, stirring continuously until it forms a paste – this is the roux.
Gradually add the warm milk a little at a time, whisking continuously until smooth.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for around 10 minutes, or until thickened.
Stir in the mustard and nutritional yeast flakes, grate and stir in the vegan cheese (if using), then season to taste with salt and pepper.
Drain and add the macaroni to the sauce, then toss to coat.
Transfer the mixture to an ovenproof baking dish (roughly 20 centimetres by 30cm), then set aside.Peel and finely slice the garlic, then pick the thyme leaves, discarding the stalks.
Add to a medium pan over a medium heat with a splash of oil.
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until golden, then transfer to a food processor with the breadcrumbs and a splash of oil.
Blitz until combined and roughly chopped, then sprinkle over the pasta.
Place the dish in the hot oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden and bubbling.
Leave to stand for around 5 minutes, then serve with seasonal greens.
Drain the chickpeas and sweetcorn, then tip into a food processor.
Pick the coriander leaves, adding half the leaves and all the stalks to the processor.
Add the spices, flour and a pinch of sea salt, finely grate in the lemon zest, then pulse until combined, but not smooth – you want to retain a bit of texture.
On a flour-dusted surface, divide and shape the mixture into 4 equal-sized patties, roughly 2 centimetres thick.
Place in the fridge for 30 minutes to firm up.Heat a splash of oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat, add the patties and cook for 10 minutes, or until golden and cooked through, turning halfway.Meanwhile, click off, wash and spin-dry four nice lettuce leaves, then finely slice the tomatoes horizontally.
Squeeze a large dollop of ketchup onto the base of each bun (toast them if you like), then top with the burgers.
Layer over a couple of slices of tomato, a lettuce leaf, a few coriander leaves and finally the burger tops.
Delicious served with a fresh green salad.
Toast the coriander and cumin seeds in a small frying pan over a medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes, then tip into a pestle and mortar and bash to a coarse powder.Peel and finely chop the ginger and garlic, then add to the frying pan over a medium heat with a splash of oil.
Fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until golden, then place into a food processor with the toasted spices.
Coarsely grate the courgettes, place into a colander in the sink, then sprinkle with a good pinch of fine sea salt.
Squeeze the mixture together with your hands to get rid of the excess moisture, then add to the processor.
Pick the coriander leaves and set aside, then add half the coriander stalks to the processor with the drained chickpeas, breadcrumbs and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Pulse until combined, but not smooth – you want to retain a bit of texture.
Transfer to a clean work surface then, with wet hands, divide and shape the mixture into eight little fat fingers.
Place onto a tray, then pop in the fridge to chill for around 20 minutes.
For the minty yoghurt dip, halve the cucumber lengthways, scoop out and discard the watery seeds, then roughly chop.
Pick and finely slice the mint leaves, then place into a bowl with the cucumber, yoghurt and a squeeze of lemon juice.
Mix well.For the nutty sauce, peel and finely slice the onion and garlic, then finely slice the remaining coriander stalks.
Place into a large frying pan over a medium heat with a splash of oil, then cook for a few minutes, or until golden.Add the cashew nuts and toast for a further 2 to 3 minutes, then transfer to a food processor.
Add the coconut milk and peanut butter, then blitz until thick and smooth.Return the large frying pan to a medium heat with a splash of oil.
Once hot, add the kofte and cook for around 2 minutes, or until golden and piping hot through, turning regularly.
Divide the kofte between your plates, tear over the coriander leaves, then serve with the nutty sauce and minty yoghurt dip and lemon wedges for squeezing.
Delicious with pitta breads or fluffy rice.
In a pan over a low heat, add a splash of water, pick in two-thirds of the basil leaves and heat until wilted.
Take it off the hob, leave to cool, then carefully squeeze out the excess water.
Pop the leaves in a blender with 75g of the ricotta and blitz to a purée.
Transfer it to a large bowl along with the remaining ricotta and eggs, grate in the Parmesan and whisk vigorously, until light and airy.
Using a large metal spoon, fold the flour into the ricotta mixture, adding a little more if it’s too sticky – it needs to be soft and moist.
Sprinkle a 5mm layer of semolina flour over a baking tray, and fill a piping bag with the ricotta mixture, cutting a 1.5 centimetres opening.
Pipe long strips of the gnudi mixture down the tray, about 1.5 centimetres apart.
Sprinkle the strips with another thick layer of semolina flour, then cut them into 2-3 centimetres pieces, making sure the gnudi are well coated in the flour.
Cover the tray with clingfilm and pop it in the fridge overnight.
To cook your gnudi, remove the tray from the fridge and let it to come up to room temperature.
Meanwhile, melt the butter in a pan over a low heat and pick in most of the reserved basil leaves.
Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, until the butter starts to bubble and the leaves have crisped up.
Finely grate in the zest of the lemon and season well with sea salt and black pepper.
Transfer to a bowl and set aside.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil over a medium heat and gently lower the gnudi into the pan with a slotted spoon.
Once they float to the surface, they’re cooked – this should take about 1 minute.
Remove them with a slotted spoon and gently toss them in the lemon butter.
Divide between 6 bowls and grate over the pecorino and serve with the rest of the basil leaves on top.
Halve the zested lemon and serve on the side for squeezing over.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.Peel the carrots and onion, then trim and slice along with the fennel (reserving any herby tops, to garnish).
Place in a roasting dish, toss with 2 tablespoons of oil.
Roast for 20 minutes, then add the unpeeled garlic cloves.
Stir everything thoroughly and return to the oven for 20 minutes more, or until the vegetables are soft and browned.
Remove and discard the papery skins from the garlic cloves.
Put the roasted veg in a large pan with the vegetable stock and bring to the boil.
Simmer gently for 15 minutes, then liquidise with a stick blender, until completely smooth.
To make  the flatbreads, toast the fennel seeds in a dry frying pan for 30 seconds or so, until fragrant.
Crush roughly with a pestle and mortar, then pour into a bowl with the flour and ½ teaspoon of sea salt.
Dissolve the yeast and sugar in 100 millimetres of hand-hot (not boiling) water, then add it to the flour mixture with the oil and 60 to 75 millimetres of hot water and mix until you have a soft, but not sticky, dough.
Knead for 5 minutes.
Pop the dough into an oiled bowl, cover with oiled clingfilm and set aside to rise in a warm place for 30 minutes.
Then, with oiled hands, divide the dough into 8 and roughly roll each one into a thin oval.
Stack them up, separating them with baking paper to stop them from sticking together.
Heat a griddle pan until it’s smoking hot and add the flatbreads (you’ll need to do this in batches).
Cook for a couple of minutes on each side, until charred and puffed up.
Keep warm in a tea towel while cooking the rest.
Gently reheat the soup, and serve with a swirl of cream, a scattering of herby fennel tops (if you have them) and the hot flatbreads.
In a bowl, mix the flours and eggs, and work the mixture into a soft dough with your hands.
When it comes together, roll the pasta out thinly and evenly and place on a surface well-floured with Tipo 00 flour.
Set aside.
Pick the soft yellow parts of the courgette flower and chop them up small, being careful not to crush them.
Add to a bowl with the ricotta.Pick the mint leaves and finely chop them and the chilli, and add to the bowl.
Season the mixture with sea salt and black pepper, mix well and spoon into a piping bag with a one centimetre nozzle.
Pipe teaspoon-sized blobs in a line on the bottom half of the pasta sheet, 3-4 centimetres apart.
Brush the edges around the filling with a little water, then fold the top half of the pasta down onto the half with the filling.
Squeeze out any air and press down to seal the edges.
With a crinkly pasta cutter, trim into separate ravioli and place on a tray well-floured with Tipo 00 flour.
To make the sauce, slice the tomatoes in half and squeeze the seeds into a sieve over a bowl.
Place the empty tomato halves cut-side down in a wide saucepan and add the juice from the seeds.
Discard the seeds themselves.
Add enough water to the pan to come half way up the sides of the tomatoes, and season well with sea salt and a little black pepper.
Pick and reserve the basil leaves, then add the whole basil stalks to the pan, cover with a lid and place over a high heat.
Bring to the boil, then turn the heat down and cook for 1 to 2 minutes.
Remove the lid and pinch the skins from the tomatoes with a pair of tongs.
Discard the skins, then mash the soft tomatoes with a potato masher.
Cook, stirring occasionally, until it reduces to a lovely fresh tomato sauce.
Fish out the basil stalks and discard.
Tear up most of the basil leaves and add to the pan with a good splash of olive oil.
Cook the ravioli in plenty of boiling salted water for 5 minutes, until they have all risen to the top, then use a slotted spoon to transfer them to the pan of tomato sauce.
Gently turn the pasta to be coated in the sauce and leave for a minute for the pasta to absorb some of it.
Spoon the ravioli and sauce onto 4 plates and top with some basil leaves and grate over a little pecorino.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Halve the tomatoes and place cut-side up in a large roasting tray.Break the garlic bulb into cloves.
Peel and slice the onions into 3 centimetres wedges, then scatter both into the tray.Sprinkle with oregano, season with sea salt and black pepper, then drizzle with oil.
Roast for 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until the tomatoes are soft and sticky.Scrape everything from the tray into a large pan, picking out and squeezing in the garlic, discarding the skins.Pour in the stock, then roughly chop and add the basil stalks with most of the leaves.Cut the ciabatta loaf in half and tear one half into the soup.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for 10 minutes.Meanwhile, put a griddle pan on a high heat.
Slice the remaining ciabatta and griddle until lightly charred on both sides.Add 1 splash of red wine vinegar to the soup, then blitz with a hand blender until fairly smooth.Ladle into bowls, drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and scatter with the
remaining basil leaves, serving the griddled ciabatta on the side.
START COOKING 
Make 500 millimetres of hot stock with the cube, then refill and boil the kettle.Trim the stalk off the squash, roughly chop the neck end (don't peel, and keep the seed end for another day), then blitz in the processor with the peeled onion, fennel seeds, dried chilli and sage leaves until combined.Put into the casserole pan, add the stock, chickpeas and their juice, then put the lid on and stir regularly.Put the pasta into the large pan, cover with boiling salted water and cook according to packet instructions.On a large board, chop and mix up the tomatoes, cucumber, trimmed spring onions, lettuce and the top leafy half of the mint.Squeeze and squidge over the avocado, discarding the skin and stone.
Dress and toss with the extra virgin olive oil and balsamic, then season to taste and crumble over the feta.Using a stick blender, blitz the sauce to your liking, season well to taste and finely grate in the Parmesan.
Drain the pasta, toss with the sauce and season to taste.
Serve scattered with chopped parsley leaves and an extra grating of Parmesan.
Give the beets a good clean, then place them in a large pan and cover with cold water.
Bring to the boil over a high heat, then cover, reduce to a simmer and cook for about 1 hour, until they are soft.
Drain and set aside to cool.
As soon as they are cool enough to handle, peel off the skins and roughly cut into 3 centimetres wedges.
While the beets are cooking, toss the seeds in a little olive oil with the paprika and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then toast them in a dry frying pan until golden.
Remove from the pan and set aside.
Make the dressing by whisking the buttermilk in a jug with the juice of half the lemon and a good lug of olive oil.
Season well.
Chop the herbs and stir them into the dressing.
Leave to one side.
Melt the butter in the frying pan you toasted the seeds in, and finely grate in the zest of the orange.
Add a squeeze of orange juice, the cinnamon and sugar and a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Bring to the boil and leave to bubble away for around 10 minutes until caramelised and sticky.
Remove from the heat and toss through the cooked beets.
Leave them to cool slightly in the pan, then spread out onto a platter.
Toss the salad leaves with the buttermilk dressing and scatter over the beets.
Finish with the toasted seeds.
Heat a griddle pan until searingly hot.
Grill the peppers on both sides until blackened, then transfer to a bowl and cover with clingfilm.
Slice the aubergine and half the courgettes into long strips – if you have any courgette flowers leave them whole.
Using the same pan, grill the aubergine, courgettes and their flowers (if using) until slightly charred; transfer to a bowl, season, and drizzle with oil.
Carefully peel the skin from the seared peppers and tear them into strips.
Add to the bowl with the aubergines and courgettes.
Scrunch the tinned tomatoes in your hands and add to the bowl.
Drizzle in the sherry vinegar and a little extra oil if desired.
Mix well.
Halve or slice the fresh tomatoes and chop most of the herbs, leaving a few leaves whole.
Slice the remaining uncooked courgettes into rounds and toss in a separate bowl with the fresh tomatoes, herbs and mizuna.
Season and drizzle with olive oil.
Serve the two salad bowls together with grilled lamb or goat’s cheese.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Put the tomatoes on a large baking tray, and season with sea salt and black pepper.
Scatter over the unpeeled garlic cloves, thyme sprigs and bay leaves, then transfer to the oven and roast for 25 minutes, or until the tomato skins are burnished and split.
Let the tomatoes cool for a minute or two, then pull them off the vines and place in a frying pan with a splash of red wine vinegar and a pinch more salt and pepper.
Squeeze the garlic into the pan, discarding the skins.
Squash with a spoon and simmer for 15 minutes, or until you have a thick, strawberry-red sauce with an almost creamy consistency.
Remove and discard the thyme sprigs and bay.Meanwhile, cook the rigatoni in a pan of boiling salted water according to the packet instructions.
Drain, reserving a mugful of starchy cooking water.Toss the pasta into the sauce, loosening with a little reserved cooking water, if needed.Drizzle over a good lug of extra virgin olive oil, finely grate over the ricotta and pick over the basil leaves (if using).
For the paratha dough, combine the chapati flour in a large bowl with ¾ teaspoon salt and about 200 millimetres cold water, then knead for 10–12 minutes.
Shape into a ball, cover with a damp tea towel and leave to rest.
Heat most of the vegetable oil in a pan over a medium heat and sauté the onion, garlic and ginger, stirring, for 6–8 minutes, until softening.
With a slotted spoon, remove the onion mixture to a bowl and set aside.
Toast the mustard and cumin seeds in a dry pan over a medium heat for 30 seconds, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until fragrant.
Transfer to a large saucepan with the rest of the vegetable oil, tomatoes, curry leaves and remaining spices.
Cook for a further 5 minutes over a medium heat.
Add the reserved onion mixture, potatoes and chillies and season generously with salt and pepper.
Pour in about 600 millimetres water, or enough to just cover the mixture.
Bring to a simmer over a low heat, cover with a lid and continue to simmer for 8–10 minutes.
Add the cauliflower and cook for another 8–10 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened and the potatoes and cauliflower are tender.
Meanwhile, cook the parathas.
Place a flat, cast-iron, Indian-style tava over a medium-high heat.
If you don’t have one of these, use a frying pan or flat griddle.
Divide the dough into 6–8 balls.
Lightly flour a flat surface and roll the first ball into a 12 centimetres circle.
Lightly brush with the melted butter and place on the hot tava or pan.
Cook for a few minutes on each side, or until the bread begins to blacken and blister.
Repeat with the remaining dough.
Serve immediately with the curry and a bowl of yoghurt on the side.
Heat half the oil in a large pan.
Slice the onions and roughly chop the celery, and cook over a medium heat for 10 minutes until soft.
Chop the celeriac, core and quarter the apples and add to the pan.
Pick in the thyme leaves and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
Add the stock, season, and simmer over a low heat for 30 minutes until the celeriac is tender.
Remove from the heat and blitz with a hand blender until smooth.
Stir in half the crème fraîche.
Heat the remaining oil in a pan and fry the sage leaves until crispy.
Spoon the soup into bowls and top with the remaining crème fraîche.
To serve, drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and sprinkle with the crispy sage leaves and hazelnuts or grated horseradish.
Slice the tomatoes and arrange on a plate.
Season with sea salt, black pepper and oil.
Douse the raspberries with a drizzle of raspberry vinegar and crush with a fork.
Tear the burrata and scatter over the tomatoes, drizzle over the raspberry dressing and pick over the basil leaves to serve.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Put the spinach and a drizzle of olive oil in a large pan over a low heat.
Add the nutmeg, season with sea salt and black pepper, cover and leave to sweat.
Help the kids to stir it occasionally until the spinach has cooked down.
Place in a bowl and set to one side to cool a little.
Dice the onion and squash the garlic.
In the same pan, heat a drizzle of olive oil and gently sweat the onion until soft.
Scrunch in the tomatoes through your clean hands and add the garlic and bay leaf.
Pick in a few basil leaves and grate in the zest of the lemon half, then let it gently simmer for 20 minutes until the sauce has thickened.
Season with salt and pepper.
Have the kids squeeze the moisture out of the spinach into the bowl.
Place the spinach on a board so you can chop it up.
Return the spinach to the liquid in the bowl.
Beat the egg and grate 2 teaspoons of Parmesan cheese.
Get the kids to stir the ricotta, egg and Parmesan into the spinach.
Season to taste.
Sit a piping bag in a jug, fold its edges over the rim, then spoon in the spinach mixture.
Have the kids help pipe the mixture into the cannelloni tubes and lay them in a 20 centimetres by 25 centimetres oven dish.
Spread the tomato sauce over the cannelloni.
Pick the remaining basil leaves and scatter most of them over the tomato sauce.
Slice the mozzarella and lay the slices on top, drizzle with extra-virgin olive oil and season.
Place in the oven and cook for 35 to 40 minutes or till the top is golden and the pasta tender (if the top browns too fast, cover the dish with foil).
Remove from the oven and let stand for a few minutes before serving with the remaining basil leaves.
Peel the oranges with a knife, then slice in half horizontally.
Slice away any pith and break into chunks.Cut the pomegranate in half – watch out, it’s messy!
Get a mixing bowl and hold the pomegranate seed-side down above the bowl.
Tap the back of the pomegranate with a wooden spoon until all the seeds fall into the bowl, then do the same for the other half.
Fill the bowl with water and pick out any white bits that float to the top, then drain away the water.Juice the lemon and pour into a clean jam jar, topping up with 3 tablespoons of oil and a pinch of sea salt.
Secure the lid and give it a good shake for a quick and easy dressing.Pick the mint leaves, then toss in the dressing with the rocket and orange, and place in little piles on plates.Tear up the mozzarella and lay onto the salad, sprinkling with coarsely ground black pepper.Scatter with some pomegranate seeds, drizzle with a little oil, shave curls of pecorino over the top, and serve.
Place the couscous, cumin, paprika and a big pinch of salt into a bowl.
Stir to combine, then pour over just enough boiling water to cover the couscous.
Cover the bowl and leave for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely chop the onion, cucumber, tomatoes and chilli (I leave the seeds in, but deseed if you prefer).
Finely chop the mint and coriander leaves, and the parsley (including the stalks).Mix the couscous up with a fork, then stir in the tomato purée until well coated (I do this with my hands – it’s messy, but quite therapeutic!).
Add all the chopped vegetables, chilli and herbs and mix well.
Stir in the oil and the lemon zest and juice, then season to how you like it.
Serve as a side with grilled meat or fish or eat it on its own if you want a light meal or snack.
These pimped-up beans are also really tasty served in the classic way, on hot buttered toast.Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
If I’m short of time, I’ll keep this simple and empty the beans straight into a sturdy 20 centimetres by 30 centimetres baking tray, so they make a flat layer across the bottom, but, to take it a step further, pimp them up first.
Finely slice the onion, garlic, peppers and chilli (I leave the seeds in, but deseed if you prefer).
Heat a splash of oil in a large pan over a medium heat, then add the chopped veg and thyme leaves and fry for around 8 minutes, or until softened.
Dice the tomatoes and add to the pan for another 5 minutes or so, or until jammy and reduced.
Pour in the beans and simmer for a final 5 minutes, then season to how you like it and pour into the baking tray in a flat layer.To make the cheesy mash, quarter the potatoes, halving any smaller ones, then put into a pan of boiling salted water.
Reduce the heat to medium and cook for 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender.
Drain in a colander, then return the empty pan to a low heat, place the colander on top and allow the potatoes to steam dry for a couple of minutes.
Tip out any excess liquid from the pan, then tip in the potatoes, add the butter and about 75 millimetres of milk.
Mash well until light, fluffy and smooth, adding a splash more milk if needed.
Stir in a few gratings of nutmeg, grate in one-third of the cheese and season to how you like it.Layer the cheesy mash on top of the beans, carefully spreading it out to the edges in an even layer, then grate over the remaining cheese (I prefer mature Cheddar, but mild is fine too).
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the beans are hot through, the cheese is melted and golden, and it's bubbling at the edges.
Serve with a crisp green salad and homemade coleslaw.
This is my fail-safe go-to dish if I’m in need of a bit of naughty comfort food.
Peel and finely chop the onions and garlic, then trim and finely chop the leek and chilli (I leave the seeds in, but deseed if you prefer), and place into your largest, heavy-based pan over a medium heat with the oil.
Fry for about 5 minutes, or until softened.
Add the spices, dried herbs and a good grating of nutmeg, then fry for 2 minutes – if it’s a little dry at this point, simply add a splash of water to help it out.
Stir in the tomato purée and cook for a further 2 minutes.Stir in the lentils.
Drain, rinse and stir in the beans, followed by the chopped tomatoes and the stock (I try to use homemade stock, but if you’ve only got stock cubes, that’s fine too).
Bring it all to the boil, then reduce to a low heat and let it bubble away for at least 1 hour, or until thickened and reduced, stirring every 15 to 20 minutes, then season to how you like it.
I like this with rice or on a jacket potato, scattered with coriander leaves and with lime wedges and a dollop of soured cream on the side.
For the salsa, deseed and finely chop the chilli.
Chop the pineapple rings and reserve the juice.Add a little oil, the mustard seeds and chilli to a small pan over a medium-high heat.
When it’s fragrant, add the pineapple and juice, and a big pinch of black pepper.
Cook for 5 minutes, till thick and sticky.
Squeeze in the lime juice, then put in a serving bowl.
For the guacamole, halve and stone the avocados and finely grate the onion.
Deseed and chop the chilli, then roughly chop the tomatoes.Squeeze the avocado flesh into a bowl.
Pick in the coriander leaves, add the onion and chilli, then squeeze in the lime juice.
Season with sea salt and black pepper, and add the tomatoes, picking out any larger bits of skin.
Mix well, with a potato masher or hand blender, and then set aside.
For another delicious dip, put the cottage cheese in a bowl, squeeze in the juice of the lime half, and stir through with a pinch of salt and pepper.
For the filling, deseed and finely chop the peppers and chilli.
Pick the coriander leaves and grate the Cheddar.To assemble, mix the peppers, chilli and coriander with the Cheddar.
Scatter across two tortillas, then top with the remaining tortillas.
Cook in a non-stick pan for 2 to 3 minutes each side, or till the tortillas are golden and the cheese melts.
Cut into quarters and serve with those delicious sides.
Whiz the goat’s cheese and milk in a food processor until blended to the consistency of thick cream.
Season with sea salt and black pepper to taste, then spoon over a large platter.
Peel and trim the beetroots, then finely slice with the apples (cores and all) using a mandolin (always use the guard).
Toss them together with a little drizzle of rapeseed oil and a tiny splash of cider vinegar.
Pile it all on top of the goat’s cheese mix.
Pick and finely slice the mint leaves, sprinkle them over and serve immediately.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Halve the aubergine lengthways and thickly slice.Drizzle some olive oil into a frying pan over a medium heat and cook the aubergine in batches for 5 to 7 minutes, or until softened and golden, adding a little more oil, if needed.
Using a slotted spoon, transfer to a large bowl.
Peel and thinly slice the onion, and peel and slice the garlic.
Add the onion and garlic to the empty pan, with a little more oil if necessary, and sauté for 5 minutes, or until softened.
Transfer to the bowl with the aubergine.
Chop the potatoes into one centimetre cubes, thinly slice the medium tomatoes and slice the courgettes.Add the potato, all the tomatoes, the courgette, passata and 200 millimetres water to the bowl.
Sprinkle with the oregano, then pick, finely chop and add the parsley.
Season generously with sea salt and black pepper.
Combine well with your hands and transfer to a large ovenproof dish.
Drizzle with any remaining oil.
Bake for 30 minutes, then turn the oven down to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Bake for another 20 to 30 minutes, or until the top has browned and vegetables are tender.
Allow to cool slightly before serving.
Preheat your oven to full whack.
Prick each of your chillies and the pepper (if you're only using 4 chillies, you'll need the pepper to bulk up the filling) with a small, sharp knife, then blacken over a gas flame, in a dry griddle pan or under a grill.
Once they’re nicely charred, pop them in a bowl and cover with clingfilm.
After 10 minutes, remove the skin, stalks and seeds, then delicately tear lengthways into thin strips.
Put these strips back in the bowl and add the red wine vinegar and a lug of olive oil.
Pick the parsley leaves and finely chop the stalks.
Stir the stalks into the bowl, reserving the leaves for later.Peel and finely chop the garlic.
Heat a lug of olive oil and some butter in a small ovenproof frying pan, then add half of your marinated chillies and the garlic.
Meanwhile, beat the eggs in a bowl with some grated Parmesan and a good pinch of sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Put a few of your parsley leaves to one side, then finely chop the rest and add them to the eggs.Pour the eggs into the pan, then crumble in half of the goat’s cheese or feta.
Move the pan a bit to spread everything around.
When the egg is just starting to set, crumble over most of the remaining goat’s cheese, then pop the frittata in a hot oven for 5 minutes or until it doubles in size.Some people cook their frittatas all the way through, but I prefer mine only just done.
Once it’s out of the oven, delicately drape the rest of your chilli over the top, crumble over the last few bits of goat’s cheese or feta, then drizzle over a little of the chilli marinade.
Sprinkle with the reserved parsley and serve with something fresh and lovely, like a rocket, lemon and Parmesan salad.
Place the ingredients in a food processor and blitz to a rough dough.
Tip out onto a flour-dusted surface and knead for 3 to 5 minutes, or until smooth.
Cut the dough into four pieces, then carefully press a portion out flat with your fingertips and start to roll it out using a pasta machine.
Start at the widest setting and roll the dough through it, lightly dusting with the rice flour if it sticks.
Roll the pasta through the widest setting a second time, then click the machine down a setting and roll the dough through again.
Now, start clicking the settings down, rolling the pasta through each setting twice – gluten-free pasta isn’t as elastic as standard pasta, so make sure you avoid using the two narrowest settings, otherwise it may rip.
Once you have a thin sheet of pasta (about 2mm thick), set aside on a flour-dusted surface and cover with a damp tea towel to avoid it drying out, then continue with the remaining dough.Now’s the time to transform your dough into whichever variety of pasta you like.
If you want to make tagliatelle, roll the pasta through the tagliatelle setting on your pasta machine, or use a sharp knife to slice the pasta sheets lengthways into long strips (roughly 7mm thick), placing on a flour-dusted tray as you go.
To cook, place in a pan of boiling salted water for around 3 minutes, or until al dente, then serve how you like it.
Peel and roughly chop the onion on a chopping board, then place in a large bowl.Trim and roughly chop the celery and leek (make sure you wash it really well), then peel and finely chop the garlic and add it all to the onion.Place a large pot on a medium heat and add 2 tablespoons of olive oil.Once hot, add all the chopped vegetables, turn the heat down to low and cook with the lid askew for 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender, stirring occasionally.
Peel the potatoes using a Y-shaped peeler, then chop into rough 2 centimetres chunks and place in the empty bowl.
Chop the courgettes into rough 2 centimetres chunks and place in the bowl with the potatoes.Fill and boil the kettle.Once the vegetables are cooked, add the potatoes, courgettes and a tiny pinch of sea salt and black pepper.Crumble the stock cube (if using) into a measuring jug and carefully top up to 1.4 litres with boiling water and stir until dissolved.
Carefully pour the hot stock into the pot.
Turn the heat up to high and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to medium-low and cook for 15 to 20 minutes or until the potato is cooked through.Add the peas or beans and the spinach and cook for a further 4  minutes, or until the peas are tender.Carefully remove the pot to a heatproof surface and leave for a minute or two to stop bubbling.Carefully blitz with a stick blender until smooth (use a tea towel to protect your hands from little splashes).
Have a taste and add a tiny pinch of salt and pepper if you think it needs it.Pick and roughly chop the mint leaves, discarding the stalks.Carefully ladle the soup into bowls and sprinkle over the mint.
Delicious served with homemade croutons (see tip below).
Wash the beetroots and carrots under cold running water, scrubbing with a scrubber to get rid of any dirt (there’s no need to peel them).Pick off and discard the wispy ends from the beetroots.Hold a box grater steady on a chopping board, then gripping the root end, coarsely grate the carrots, stopping before your fingers or knuckles get too close to the grater.
Place the grated carrots into a large bowl.Coarsely grate or finely slice the cabbage, then discard the core and add to the bowl.Remove the stalk from the pear, coarsely grate (core and all), then place it into the bowl.Finally, hold the root end of the beetroots and coarsely grate (you may want to wear rubber gloves for this), then add to the bowl.Pick the mint and parsley leaves, then discard the stalks.
Tear or finely chop the leaves on a board and add to the bowl.Add all the dressing ingredients to a jam jar.Put the lid securely on the jar and shake well.Have a taste and see whether you think it needs a bit more yoghurt, vinegar or oil – you want it to be slightly too acidic, so that it’s still nice and zingy once you’ve dressed your rainbow salad.
Drizzle most of the dressing over the salad – just remember you can always add more but you can’t take it away, so be cautious.Divide the salad between the tortilla wraps, then crumble a little feta over each.Roll up the wraps, tucking them in at the sides as you go, then serve.
To make the dressing, trim and finely slice the spring onions, then place the green pieces in a large bowl.
Quarter and add the tomatoes along with 6 tablespoons of oil, the zest from half the lemon and most of the juice.
Season, then set the dressing aside.
Squeeze the remaining lemon juice over the white part of the onions and set aside.Pick and set aside the mint leaves, then tie the stalks together with string.
Place the stalks and broad beans into a pan of boiling salted water, then blanch for around 2 minutes.
Using a slotted spoon, transfer the broad beans to a bowl, discarding the mint stalks.
Add the peas to the boiling water and blanch for 2 minutes.
Meanwhile, pod any larger broad beans and add to the dressing, then drain and add the peas.
Finely slice and add most of the mint leaves, then toss everything well to coat.Toast the sourdough in a griddle pan over a high heat.
Halve the garlic and rub the cut side onto one side of the griddled bread, then rub over the rosemary.
Sprinkle with a little salt and drizzle over some oil.
Pile the peas and broad beans onto the dressed side of your toast.
Sprinkle over the white spring onion and the reserved mint leaves, then grate the remaining lemon zest on top.
Use a speed-peeler to shave the feta over the top, then serve.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Peel the potatoes and carrots, then coarsely grate them in a food processor or by hand on a box grater.
Add a good pinch of sea salt, toss and scrunch it all together, then leave for 5 minutes.Meanwhile, mix the mustard, a good squeeze of lemon juice, and a couple of lugs of extra virgin olive oil with a little pinch of salt and black pepper in a medium bowl and put aside.Drizzle a really good lug of olive oil into a large bowl and add a good pinch of pepper.
Handful by handful, squeeze the potato and carrot mixture to get rid of the excess salty liquid, then sprinkle into the bowl.
Toss in the oil and pepper until well mixed, then evenly scatter it over a large oiled baking tray (roughly 30 centimetres by 40cm).
Roast for around 35 minutes, or until golden on top and super-crispy around the edges.Meanwhile, blanch the peas for a minute in a large pan of boiling salted water, then scoop out, add to the bowl of dressing and pile the spinach on top.
Just before your rösti is ready, with the water gently simmering, crack in the eggs, poach to your liking, then carefully remove with a slotted spoon.
Serve the rösti with the eggs on top.
Quickly toss the salad together to dress it and scatter in piles on the rösti, then crumble over the feta and serve.
I like to whack it in the middle of the table and let everyone dig in.
Peel the ginger and garlic and finely grate into a large bowl.
Add the soy sauce, vinegar, sesame oil and a pinch of black pepper, then mix to make a dressing.
Trim and shred the cabbage and put it into a large pan of boiling salted water with the broccoli (cut into florets first, if using fresh) and noodles to cook for around 3 minutes, then add the mangetout for a final minute.
Drain it all well, then toss in the bowl of dressing.Fry the eggs in a large non-stick frying pan on a medium heat with a lug of olive oil until cooked to your liking (I like mine with a runny yolk).
Divide the noodles between bowls, pop an egg on top of each one, and serve drizzled with chilli sauce for that all-important added kick.
Run a fork down the length of the cucumber until it’s stripy all over.On a chopping board, use a knife to chop off the ends.Carefully cut them in half across the middle, then in half lengthways.Use a teaspoon to gently scoop out and discard the seeds.Chop the cucumber up into one centimetre chunks and place in a mixing bowl.Place the olives on a chopping board, squash them with the heel of your hand, pull out and discard the stones, then roughly chop them and add them to the bowl.Trim and finely slice the spring onions and add them to the bowl.Add the balsamic vinegar and 4 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.Squeeze in the juice of ½ a lemon, using your fingers to catch any pips.Sprinkle over a pinch of black pepper.Pick and tear over the mint leaves, toss everything together, then serve.
Pick the basil leaves onto a chopping board (reserving a few baby leaves to garnish), then roughly chop the remaining leaves and finely chop the stalks.Peel and finely slice the onion and garlic.
If using fresh, cut the tomatoes in half, then roughly chop them or carefully open the tins of tomatoes.Put a saucepan on a medium heat and add 1 tablespoon of olive oil and the onion, then cook for around 7 minutes, or until soft and lightly golden.Stir in the garlic and basil stalks for a few minutes, then add the fresh or tinned tomatoes and the vinegar.Season with a tiny pinch of salt and pepper, then continue cooking for around 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.Stir in the chopped basil leaves, then reduce to low and leave to tick away.
Meanwhile…Carefully fill a large pot three-quarters of the way up with boiling water, add a tiny pinch of salt and bring back to the boil.Add the spaghetti and cook according to packet instructions – you want to cook your pasta until it is al dente.
This translates as ‘to the tooth’ and means that it should be soft enough to eat, but still have a bit of a bite and firmness to it.
Use the timings on the packet instructions as a guide, but try some just before the time is up to make sure it’s perfectly cooked.Once the pasta is done, ladle out and reserve a cup of the cooking water and keep it to one side, then drain in a colander over the sink and tip the spaghetti back into the pot.Stir the spaghetti into the sauce, adding a splash of the pasta water to loosen, if needed.Serve with the reserved basil leaves sprinkled over the top and use a microplane to finely grate the Parmesan cheese, then sprinkle over.PRINT THIS RECIPE (UK)
PRINT THIS RECIPE (USA)
Chicory (also know as endive) has quite a bitter taste, which contrasts perfectly with the sweetness of the pear and the creaminess of the cheese.
It’s delicious with walnuts crumbled over the top too, if you like.Pick out and discard any tatty watercress leaves, then place into a serving bowl.Trim the bases of the chicory, then finely slice them and add to the bowl.Cut the lemon in half.Squeeze most of the juice into the jar, using your fingers to catch any pips.Add the extra virgin olive oil to the jar with a tiny pinch of salt and pepper.Put the lid securely on the jar and shake well.Have a taste and see whether you think it needs a bit more lemon juice or oil – you want it to be slightly too acidic, so that it’s still nice and zingy once you’ve dressed your salad.Remove the pear stalk and finely slice the pear into rounds (core and all), then use good knife skills to carefully cut the slices across into matchsticks.Scatter the pear over the watercress, then squeeze over the remaining lemon juice to stop the pear turning brown.Crumble over the blue cheese.Drizzle over the dressing and gently toss together so everything is nicely coated, then serve.
If you’re bored of sandwiches, then these stuffed pittas are the best alternative.
They’re perfect for packed lunches and there’s no excuse for them not to be delicious – give these a go, then experiment with your own favourite flavour combinations.1.
Preheat the oven to 130 Celsius or 250°F /gas ½.2.
Use a Y-shaped peeler to peel the carrots on a chopping board.3.
Pick the coriander leaves and finely chop them, discarding the stalks.
4.
Place a small non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, add the seeds and leave them to toast for 3 to 4 minutes, or until lightly golden, tossing regularly, then tip them into a salad bowl.5.
Coarsely grate the carrots using a box grater, then add them to the salad bowl along with the coriander leaves.6.
Pop the pittas onto a baking tray and into the oven for a few minutes to warm through.7.
To make the dressing, use a microplane to finely grate the zest of the orange, then add it to a small mixing bowl.8.
Cut the orange in half and squeeze in the juice, catching any pips with your hand.9.
Cut the lemons in half and squeeze in the juice from 1½ lemons, then add 5 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil.10.
Add a tiny pinch of salt and pepper, then mix well with a fork.11.
Pour the dressing into the salad bowl and toss everything together well, adding a squeeze more lemon juice if you think it needs it.12.
Use oven gloves to remove the pittas from the oven, then serve with the zingy salad and some homemade houmous and let everyone stuff and build their own pittas.Jamie's Tip: If you want to turn this salad into more of a main meal, try adding some thinly sliced orange, a few slices of grilled chicken, or a little feta or goat’s cheese crumbled over the top.
This dip is delicious, much tastier than the shop-bought ones you can get, and you know exactly what’s gone into it.Pick and finely chop the mint leaves on a chopping board, discarding the stalks, then add them to a mixing bowl.Use a microplane to finely grate the zest of half a lemon onto the board, then transfer to the bowl.Cut the lemon in half.Squeeze the juice into a bowl, using your fingers to catch any pips.Peel and very finely chop the garlic on a board, then scoop it up and add to the bowl.Add the yoghurt and a tiny pinch of salt and pepper, then stir everything together.Have a taste and add a squeeze more lemon juice, if you think it needs it.Transfer to a serving bowl, and serve with a platter of veggies for dipping.Jamie’s top tip
I love to serve these dips with whatever seasonal crunchy vegetables I can get hold of – radishes, carrots, celery, or sweet crunchy lettuce leaves like cos and Romaine are great for dipping.
Fill a large pan with water, add a tiny pinch of salt and bring to the boil over a high heat.Meanwhile, on a chopping board, cut the florets from the broccoli, then cut or break them into bite-sized pieces.Trim and cut the stalk in half, then finely slice it.Once boiling, use a slotted spoon to carefully lower the broccoli into the water.Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, or until tender – you should be able to poke the tip of a knife easily into the florets.Drain over the sink into a colander, then leave to steam dry for a minute.Tip back into the pan, then sprinkle with a tiny pinch of salt and pepper.Add the butter and toss to coat, then tip into a serving bowl and serve.
To make the puris, place the semolina, flour and a pinch of salt in a bowl, then gradually add the soda water, stirring continuously until the mixture comes together to form a stiff dough.
Place into a flour-dusted bowl, cover with a damp tea towel and leave to stand for 30 minutes.Meanwhile, blitz all the pani ingredients, ½ a bunch of coriander, a pinch of salt and pepper and 200 millimetres of water in a liquidiser until smooth.
Line a sieve with a double layer of muslin, place over a large bowl, then pour in the tomato mixture and leave to strain – you’ll end up with a beautiful, intense, flavoured water.Meanwhile, make the green salsa.
Roughly chop and add the ginger to a liquidiser with the remaining salsa ingredients.
Blitz until smooth, then season to taste and transfer to a small bowl.
For the spiced chickpeas, heat a lug of olive oil in a medium frying pan over a medium heat.
Add the cumin, curry leaves and cinnamon, then fry for around 3 minutes, or until nicely toasted.
Stir in the chickpeas, then add the tamarind paste or chutney and cook for a further 3 minutes to warm through, shaking the pan occasionally.
Transfer to a plate and set aside.Shape the puri dough on a flour-dusted surface into a long sausage shape, roughly 40 centimetres in length, then take small lumps of dough and roll into rough grape-sized pieces with your hands.
Roll the dough out into thin, flat circles, roughly 7 centimetres in diameter.Place a large, deep pan over a high heat, add the vegetable oil and allow it to get really hot.
To test if it’s hot enough, drop a tiny piece of dough into the pan – if it floats to the surface and starts to sizzle, it’s about right.
Using a slotted spoon, carefully lower 3 to 4 dough circles into the pan.
Fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffed up, using the spoon to push them under the oil, then carefully flip them over and continue cooking for 2 minutes, or until golden and crisp.
Transfer to a double layer of kitchen paper to drain, then repeat with the remaining dough.
Meanwhile, finely chop the fennel, radishes, onion and cucumber, then place into separate bowls.
To serve the puris, smash a hole in the top and spoon some chickpeas, green salsa and chopped vegetables inside.
Drizzle in a little of the pani, pick over a few of the remaining coriander leaves and tuck in.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Just cover the porcini with boiling water, then set aside to rehydrate.Peel and finely slice the onions and garlic, then place in a large pan over a medium-low heat with 1 tablespoon of oil.
Strip in the rosemary and sage leaves and add 1 teaspoon of dried oregano.Roughly chop the porcini (reserving the soaking liquor) and add to the pan, then fry for 10 minutes, or until softened, stirring occasionally.
Turn the heat up to high, then add the wine and let it bubble and cook away.Stir in the chickpeas (juice and all), lentils and 2 bay leaves.
Scrunch in the tomatoes through your clean hands, then pour in the porcini soaking liquor (discarding just the last gritty bit).
Season with sea salt and black pepper, bring to the boil, then simmer on a low heat for 1 hour, or until thickened and reduced, stirring occasionally.Trim the aubergines and peel with a speed-peeler, leaving a little of the skin to create a stripy effect, then slice into one centimetre-thick rounds.
Place in a colander, sprinkle with a good pinch of salt and leave in the sink to drain (the salt will draw out the moisture).Peel the potatoes and slice into rough one centimetre rounds, then parboil in a pan of boiling salted water for 5 minutes.
Drain and leave to steam dry, then place in a large, deep roasting tray (30 centimetres by 40cm).Season, drizzle with oil and scatter over 1 heaped tablespoon of dried oregano.
Toss well to coat, then roast in a single layer for 30 to 40 minutes, or until golden and tender.Meanwhile, rinse the aubergines and pat dry with kitchen paper, then spread out across a few large roasting trays.
Drizzle with oil, season with pepper and oregano, then roast alongside the potatoes for 30 to 40 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.Warm the milk with the remaining 2 bay leaves and the peppercorns in a pan on a medium-low heat – keep an eye on it.
Before it boils, strain into a jug, then wipe out the pan and return to a medium heat.Melt the butter, then stir in the flour to form a paste.
Start adding the hot milk, a splash at a time, stirring in each addition before adding more, until you have a smooth, creamy sauce.Crumble in one-third of the feta and grate in one-third of the kefalotyri, then simmer over a low heat for a further 5 minutes, or until thick and smooth.
Leave to cool slightly.To assemble, spoon half the ragù over the tray of potatoes, then layer half the aubergines on top.
Repeat with the remaining ragù and aubergines.Separate the eggs (saving the whites for another recipe).
Whisk the yolks into the sauce, then pour over the aubergines.
Crumble and grate over the remaining cheese, drizzle with oil, and bake for 40 minutes, or until golden.Leave to stand for 30 minutes, then serve.
Great with a Greek salad.
Melt the 100g of butter and leave it to cool.Crack the eggs into a bowl, add the milk and whisk to combine.
Add the cooled melted butter and gradually stir it through the mixture.
It’s important not to stir the mixture any more after this or your waffles may be tough.Place your griddle pan over a high heat, add the extra teaspoon of butter and as soon as it’s melted pour in the waffle batter and spread it around to fill the pan.
You could also make smaller waffles, if you prefer – you’ll need to do 2 at a time.Lower the heat to medium-low and cook the waffles for around 6 minutes, or until lightly golden on the bottom.
Flip over and continue to cook for around 6 minutes, until golden and cooked through.
(It can be tricky to flip a whole waffle, but be bold and go for it – if it breaks, don’t worry, you can rock the rustic look.)Give the waffle an extra couple of minutes on each side to crisp up, then serve them with your toppings.
I like mine with bacon, egg and maple syrup, but you can serve them with berries and yoghurt, or whatever you like.
To make the pangritata, lightly toast the sourdough.
Peel the garlic, then put in a food processor with the toasted bread and the walnuts.
Pick in the leaves of the herbs and blitz until fine.
Preheat a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat, add a drizzle of olive oil, then add the pangritata and fry for around 5 minutes, or until golden and crisp.Meanwhile, bring a large pan of salted water to the boil, then reduce the heat to low and place a large heatproof bowl on top.
Add the mascarpone or crème fraîche to the bowl along with the leftover cheeses, crumbling or grating any harder varieties first, then stir until melted.
Carefully remove the bowl from the heat and set aside, then turn the heat up to high.
Once the water is boiling, add the pasta and cook according to packet instructions.
Drain the pasta, reserving a cupful of cooking water, then add to the bowl of melted cheese and toss to coat, adding a splash of the reserved cooking water to loosen, if needed.Transfer to a serving platter, drizzle over a little extra virgin olive oil, sprinkle the crispy pangritata on top and serve right away.
Put 6 wooden skewers into a tray of cold water to soak – this will stop them from burning.On a chopping board, cut the halloumi into 2 centimetres cubes, then add to a large mixing bowl.Carefully cut the pepper in half from top to bottom, then trim away the stalk, seeds and any white pith (you can use teaspoon to do this), then slice into 2 centimetres pieces and add to the bowl.Cut the courgette in half lengthways, then cut into half-moon slices, roughly ½cm thick, then add to the bowl along with the tomatoes.Pick the mint leaves onto a board and finely chop them, discarding the stalks.Carefully deseed and finely chop the chilli, if using.Use a microplane to finely grate the lemon zest onto a board, then add to the bowl along with the mint leaves, chilli (if using), and 2 tablespoons of olive oil.Season with a pinch of pepper, then mix well to coat.Preheat the grill to high.Lightly grease a baking tray with oil, then put aside.Thread and divide the halloumi cubes, cherry tomatoes, pepper and courgette pieces between the skewers.Place onto the greased tray and cook under the grill for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the cheese is golden and the veg are soft, turning halfway through.Serve with a fresh green salad and some flatbreads or pittas.
Soak the corn (husks and all) in cold water for at least 30 minutes – if you can’t find cobs with the husks intact, you don’t need to do this.
Meanwhile, place the mayo into a bowl with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, the zest from the limes and the juice from 1.
Mix well, taste and add a squeeze more juice, if needed.
Spread the mayo onto a plate, then dust with the paprika or cayenne pepper and put to one side.
Grate the cheese onto another large plate, then set aside also.Preheat a griddle pan over a high heat.
Add the corn and griddle for 12 to 15 minutes, or until the husks are black and charred all over, turning occasionally – the husks will help to steam the corn until tender.Peel back the husks, keeping them intact at the base, then roll each cob into the lime-spiked mayo, before rolling into the cheese.
Shake off any excess and get stuck in.



You won’t believe how tasty the courgettes get with this method of cooking – it really does take them to another level.
You’ve got to find some Lincolnshire Poacher, it’s an amazing cheese made by the very talented Jones brothers, Simon and Tim.
The pastry is rich and amazing, so embrace the fact that it’s really crumbly and will definitely break as you’re making it.
I’m serving this with a lemony salad and sweet salt-baked shallots, which will get caramelized and gorgeous and pick up the seasoning from the bed of salt.
This method is also a great one for beetroots, so if you like this, try that.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Blitz the flour and butter in a food processor with a pinch of salt and a few good pinches of pepper until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.
Tip on to a work surface, make a well in the centre and add 100 millimetres of cold water.
Gently mix until it starts to come together, then – most importantly for a short, crumbly pastry – have the confidence to only just press, pat and almost hug it together to form a rough scruffy ball.
Please don’t be tempted to knead the dough or it won’t be short and crumbly.
Pop it into a floured bowl, cover with clingfilm and put into the fridge to chill while you make the filling.Put a drizzle of olive oil into a large pan on a medium heat and pick in the leaves from half the bunch of thyme.
Add a few gratings of nutmeg, the zest of half the lemon, the sliced courgettes and a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Cook gently (the courgettes will cook down and become easier to handle), stirring occasionally, for around 25 minutes.
Then turn the heat down to low and cook for another 20 minutes, so the courgette mixture becomes dense and the flavours really intensify and sweeten.
Allow to cool a little, finely chop and crumble in the cheese, then chop and add the mint leaves.
Set aside.Halve the pastry and roll each half into a circle just under one centimetre thick and slightly larger than the pie dish you’ve chosen (roughly 23 centimetres diameter by 4 centimetres deep).
Don’t worry if the pastry breaks up – that’s normal.
Just patch it.
Roll one of the circles around the rolling pin and carefully unroll it over the pie dish.
Gently press the pastry into the corners and sides of the dish, then spoon and spread all your courgette mixture into the dish.
Carefully unroll the pastry lid over the top, then flour your thumb and forefinger and gently pinch and crimp the edges together.
Trim off any excess pastry and brush the top of the pie with the beaten egg.Now simply throw the rock salt into a roasting tray with the shallots, still with their skins on, and a few thyme tips.
Put the pie right at the bottom of the oven, with the tray of shallots above.
Cook for 1 hour, or until the pie is golden, then allow to cool and serve with those soft roasted shallots.PS:
All the leftover salt from baking the shallots can be bashed up and reused.
Add all the flatbread ingredients to a mixing bowl and mix together with a spoon, then use clean hands to pat and bring everything together.
Dust a clean work surface with flour, then tip out the dough.Knead for a minute or so to bring it all together (this isn’t a traditional bread recipe, so you don’t need to knead it for long – just enough time to bring everything together).
Put the dough into a floured-dusted bowl and cover with a plate, then leave aside.If making the garlic butter:
peel the garlic cloves and crush them with a garlic crusher.
Pick the herb leaves onto a chopping board and finely chop them, discarding the stalks.
Melt the butter in a small pan over a medium heat, then stir through the garlic and chopped herbs, then set aside.Dust a clean work surface and rolling pin with flour, then divide the dough in half, then divide each half into 6 equal-sized pieces (roughly the size of a golf ball).
With your hands, pat and flatten the dough, then use a rolling pin to roll each piece into 12 centimetres rounds, roughly 2mm to 3mm thick.
Use a knife to cut 6 lines into the centre of each round, leaving about 3 centimetres at each end.Place the griddle pan on a high heat, then once hot, cook each one for 1 to 2 minutes on each side, or until bar-marked and puffed up, turning with tongs.
Brush the flatbreads all over with herby garlic butter as they come off the griddle, then pile onto a serving board so everyone can dig in and help themselves.
Crack the eggs into a mixing bowl.
Add the milk and season with a tiny pinch of salt and pepper.
Gently whisk the eggs and milk together with a fork, then put to one side.Place the frying pan on a medium heat to heat up.
Meanwhile…Dip and push 1 slice of bread into the eggy mixture, turning it over a few times to make sure it’s well coated and sucks up the mixture like a sponge.
Add ½ a tablespoon of olive oil to the frying pan and carefully swirl the pan around to evenly coat the inside.
Lift the soaked bread up in the bowl and allow the excess mixture to drip off, then carefully lower it into the pan, making sure it’s facing away from you so you don’t get splashed with hot oil.Cook for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until golden and cooked through, using a fish slice to flip it over.
Carefully lift the bread out of the frying pan and onto a serving plate using a fish slice.
Place the pan back on the heat and repeat steps 6 to 10 with the remaining ingredients.
Crack the eggs into a measuring jug.
Add a tiny pinch of sea salt and black pepper, then use a fork to beat them together well.
Put a medium saucepan over a low heat and add the butter.
Leave it to melt slowly, then when it starts to bubble carefully pour in the eggs.
Stir slowly with a wooden spoon, or a spatula if you’ve got one, so you can get right to the edges of the pan.
Keep gently stirring until the eggs still look silky, slightly runny and slightly underdone, and then remove from the heat – the heat of the pan will continue to cook the eggs to perfection.
Serve with lightly buttered toast.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Wash the potatoes under cold running water, scrubbing well with a scrubber to get rid of any dirt (there’s no need to peel them).On a chopping board, cut each potato in half lengthways, then cut each half in half lengthways, and then each piece in half again so you end up with 8 wedges, then add to a large mixing bowl.
Sprinkle over a tiny pinch of sea salt and black pepper, and the paprika.
Drizzle over 2 tablespoons olive oil, then toss everything together to coat.Spread out into a single layer over two large baking trays, then bake in the hot oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.
Use oven gloves to remove the trays from the oven, then leave to sit for a couple of minutes (this will make it easier to remove them from the tray), then use a fish slice to transfer them to a serving dish.
Lightly rub a baking tray with some olive oil and put to one side.
Put a large pan on a low heat and add your butter and sugar.
Leave on a gentle simmer for a couple of minutes, stirring occasionally to stop it catching, until the sugar has completely dissolved and the mixture starts to darken.
Gently stir in your pecans until they’re well coated in the caramel syrup.
Be careful not to splash yourself, and don’t be tempted to have a taste because hot caramel can burn quite badly.
Once coated, tip the nuts on to the oiled tray and use the back of a spoon to separate them out into one layer.
Leave them to cool so the caramel can harden on the nuts.Meanwhile, make your dressing.
Grate the orange zest into a large salad bowl, squeeze in the juice and add the Dijon mustard, white wine vinegar and a good lug of extra virgin olive oil.
Whisk them, then have a taste – you want to get a nice balance between the sharpness of the vinegar and the smoothness of the oil, so add a little more oil if needed, then season carefully with sea salt and black pepper.Click off the chicory leaves and wash and spin dry all your leaves.
Core, quarter and finely slice your apples and add to the bowl with all your leaves.
Break the cooled pecans apart, add half of them to the bowl, and use your hands to delicately toss and dress everything.
Serve on one big platter, or divide up between plates, and finish by crumbling over the rest of your beautiful caramel pecans.
Crumpies are my new delicious invention and are a cross between a crumpet and a Yorkshire pudding.
They can be whizzed together quickly, then poured into a Yorkshire pudding mould and banged into the oven to get lovely and crisp on the top and bottom, and knotty, chewy and bubbly inside.
They’re perfect with butter, or whatever other lovely condiments you’ve got hanging around the cupboard.
My wife loves strawberry jam with hers, Daisy loves Marmite, Poppy loves a drizzle of honey, and personally I like a little scrambled egg with a blob of ketchup or brown sauce (or both) on the plate and, depending on how I feel, a little chilli sauce.Preheat the oven to 170 Celsius or 325 Fahrenheit or gas 3 and grease a 12-hole muffin tin with some vegetable oil.
Place all the other ingredients in a bowl with 2 teaspoons of sea salt and pour in 600 millimetres of tepid water.
The water needs to be warm enough to activate the yeast, but not so hot that it kills it.
Whisk everything together until you’ve got a loose batter that is just combined – this should only take a few seconds.
Leave to stand for 10 minutes to let the yeast do its job.
When the mixture is a spoonable, sticky consistency, but still quite wet, spoon it into the muffin tin.
Fill each hole until it’s almost level with the top of the tin and cook for around 35 minutes, or until the crumpies are risen and golden.
Remove to a wire rack for a few minutes to cool slightly, then serve while still warm with anything you fancy.Here are a few ideas to get your started:Cream cheese
Jam and banana
A few slices of cooked ham
Some beautiful slices of cheese
Smoked salmon and a wedge of lemon
Sliced strawberries with cream or yoghurt
Some snapped up pieces of crispy bacon
A spoonful of quality jam
Sliced banana and runny honey
A spoonful of nutella
Ham and mustard
A poached egg
...
but there are no rules!
Peel and finely slice the onions and garlic.
Deseed and finely slice the peppers and chillies.Get a large frying pan (make sure you’ve got a lid to go with it) on a high heat and add several good lugs of olive oil.
Add the onion, garlic, peppers, fresh and dried chillies, bay leaves and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper, and cook for 15 minutes, or until to softened and caramelised, stirring regularly.Pour in the tomatoes, using a spoon or potato masher to break them up.
Bring to the boil, then turn down to a medium heat and cook for a further 5 minutes to reduce the sauce.When you’ve got a nice thick tomato stew consistency, have a taste and adjust the seasoning, if needed.Slice the fresh tomatoes and lay them over the top of the mixture.Use a spoon to make small wells in the tomato stew, then crack in the eggs so they poach in the thick, delicious juices – try to crack them in as quickly as you can so they all get to cook for roughly the same amount of time.
Season from a height, put the lid on and let the eggs cook for around 3 to 4 minutes, or until cooked to your liking.
Warm the tortillas while this is happening.
You can pop them into the oven at 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4 for a few minutes, microwave them for a few seconds or even lay them over the lid of the pan so they heat up as the eggs cook.Take the lid off and check your eggs by giving them a poke with your finger.
When they’re done to your liking, turn the heat off and take the pan to the table with the warmed tortillas, the Cheddar and a grater so everyone can get involved and make their own.
Personally, I like to grate a bit of cheese right on to a warm tortilla, spoon an egg and some of the wonderful tomato stew on top, wrap it up, and eat it right away.
What a beautiful way to wake up!
This is one of the most delicious cornbreads I’ve ever had.
You get incredible flavour from the onions and sweetcorn, while the cornmeal gives it a rustic, spongy texture that’s so brilliant.
Two of my favourites, chilli and cheese, do their thing in this bread and really take the flavour to a whole other level.
You can serve this cornbread alongside soups or stews, but frankly, I think a good slice of this, with a bit of crunchy salad, makes a brilliant lunch.
You could also reheat it in a dry pan the next day for breakfast and eat it with poached eggs and some smoky bacon .
.
.
totally delicious.Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Grease a 22 centimetres cake tin with oil and line the base with greaseproof paper.Peel and finely slice the onions.
Melt the butter in a frying pan on a medium heat, add the onions, then fry gently for 15 to 20 minutes, or until caramelised, golden and sticky.
Hold the corn cobs upright on a board and carefully run a small knife from the top of the corn to the bottom, cutting all the kernels off.
Add to the caramelised onions and cook for a further 5 minutes.
Remove from the heat and set aside to cool.Beat the eggs in a large bowl, then mix in the cornmeal, milk, baking powder, flour and a good pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Grate the cheese, add most of it to the bowl, then beat until well mixed.
Deseed, finely chop and stir in 2 chillies, along with the cooled onion and corn mixture.
Pour the mixture into the prepared cake tin.
Finely slice and sprinkle over the remaining chilli, then pop the cornbread into the oven for 35 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.
About 10 minutes before it’s ready, sprinkle over your remaining cheese and return it to the oven.Cool for 15 minutes, then turn it out onto a wire rack or serving plate, cheesy side up.
Serve straightaway – it’s unbelievably good when it’s warm.
Preheat the oven to 225 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 9.
Get yourself a cupcake tin and add a tiny splash of vegetable oil into each of the 12 compartments.
Pop into the oven for 10 to 15 minutes so the oil gets really hot.Meanwhile, beat the eggs, flour, milk and a pinch of salt and pepper together in a jug until light and smooth.Carefully remove the tray from the oven, then confidently pour the batter evenly into the compartments.
Pop the tray back in the oven to cook for 12 to 15 minutes, or until risen and golden.
Tear the ciabatta into rough 3 centimetres pieces and place on a tray.
Leave aside in a warm place for around 30 minutes – this helps to dry it out.
Place the tomatoes in a bowl and season with salt and pepper.
Rinse the capers, squeezing out any excess liquid and add to the bowl, along with the onion, peppers, ciabatta and anchovies, if using.
Toss the mixture together with your hands, then stir in 2 tablespoons of vinegar and about 3 times as much extra virgin olive oil.
Taste and add a little more salt, pepper, vinegar or oil, if needed.Tear in the basil leaves, stir together and serve.
Delicious with barbecued meats or roast chicken.
Cook the quinoa according to the packet instructions, with a good pinch of sea salt.
Meanwhile, trim and finely slice all the chillies, slice the tomato, quarter the cherry tomatoes and trim and finely slice the spring onions.
Heat a good lug of olive oil in a frying pan over a high heat, add the cumin seeds and fry for around 30 seconds.Drain and add the beans, followed by a pinch of salt and continue cooking for 5 to 8 minutes, or until crisp all over.
While the beans are cooking, place the sliced chillies into a bowl with the vinegar, sugar and a pinch of salt, then put aside.Drain the quinoa well, then drizzle over a little extra virgin olive oil and the lemon juice and season lightly.
Spread it out on a tray and leave aside to cool slightly.
Transfer the cooked beans to a bowl, wipe the pan clean and return to a medium heat with a splash of olive oil.
Once hot, crack in the eggs and fry to your liking – for lovely, runny eggs, you only need a couple of minutes.
Transfer the quinoa to a large serving platter, layer the eggs on top and spoon over the crispy beans.
Halve and destone the avocado, then scoop out and dot over the flesh.
Scatter the tomatoes, spring onions and chillies on top, then drizzle over a little of the pickling juice.
Pick and roughly chop the mint and coriander leaves and sprinkle on top, then add a drizzle of extra virgin olive and serve with plenty of hot chilli sauce.
Place all the ingredients into a food processor, including the basil or coriander stalks, and blitz for around 30 seconds, or until smooth.
Taste and add a bit more vinegar, lemon juice or seasoning if needed.
Use a few tablespoons to dress a beautiful garden salad and keep the rest in a clean jar in the fridge – it’ll keep happily for a couple of days.

Using a speed peeler, peel the courgettes lengthways into long thin ribbons, then finely chop the chillies and add both to a bowl.
In a small jug, add the juice of the lemon and top up with double the amount of extra virgin olive oil.
Stir in the mustard powder and a pinch of sea salt, then mix well and pour over the salad.
Toss to coat, then pick and scatter over the basil leaves and serve immediately.
Scratch a fork down the sides of the cucumber so it leaves deep grooves in the skin, then chop into erratic slices at an angle.
Roughly chop the tomatoes, deseed and slice the pepper lengthways and add to a salad bowl with the chopped veg.
Destone the olives and tear into the bowl.
Halve and finely slice the red onion (you can also try shaving it with a speed peeler), then add to the bowl along with a good drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, a good pinch of black pepper and a splash of red wine vinegar.
Toss everything together, then add a good squeeze of lemon juice.
Break the feta in half and place on top, add a scattering of flowering oregano, drizzle over a little more extra virgin olive oil and pick over the mint leaves.
Peel and bash the garlic in a pestle and mortar with a pinch of sea salt.
Pick the basil leaves and add with the pine nuts, and pound to a coarse paste.
Muddle in the extra virgin olive oil and finely grate and stir in the Parmesan, adding a splash of water if you like it a little runnier, then continue bashing and pounding until smooth.
Have a taste and season with salt and black pepper, if needed.
For a lovely creamy finish, try crumbling in and stirring through a cooked Jersey Royal.
Serve with grilled meat or fish, or simply stirred through pasta – delicious!
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Add the potatoes to a medium pan of boiling salted water, reduce the heat to medium and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until cooked through.
Drain and leave to steam dry, then place in medium roasting tray and mash lightly with a potato masher.
Throw in the garlic and rosemary, season with salt and pepper and drizzle with a good lug of olive oil.
Place in the hot oven for around 40 minutes, or until crispy and golden.
Delicious served with Spring lamb and asparagus.
Put the flour, yeast and 1 tablespoon of salt in a large bowl.
Stir to combine and make a well in the middle.
Gradually pour 650 millimetres of lukewarm water into the well, continuously stirring and bringing in the flour as you go to form a rough dough.
Transfer the dough to a flour-dusted surface and knead for around 10 minutes, or until smooth and springy.
Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover with a damp tea towel and leave to prove in a warm place for around 1 hour, or until doubled in size.Meanwhile, lightly grease a large baking tray.
Once the dough has risen, knock it back with your fist and place on the oiled baking tray.
Using your hands, spread it out to cover the tray, then drizzle with olive oil.
Use your fingers to push down into the dough to make lots of little wells and dips.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Add the Jersey Royals to a medium pan of boiling salted water, reduce the heat to medium and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until cooked through.
Drain and leave to cool in a colander.
Meanwhile, finely slice the purple potatoes with a mandolin (use the guard!) and add to a bowl with the rosemary leaves.
Separate and lightly crush the garlic cloves, then add to the bowl with a drizzle of olive oil and toss to combine.
Evenly spread the potato mixture over the dough, crumble over the cooled Jersey Royals, drizzle with a little more olive oil and season with salt and pepper.
Cover with a tea towel and leave in a warm place for another hour, or until doubled in size.Once risen, use your fingers to push down into the dough again to make lots of little wells and dips.
Place in the hot oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden and cooked through.
Leave to cool slightly, drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil and serve.
Very finely slice the cedro with a mandolin (use the guard!) and place in a large bowl along with the juice of the lemon.
Add the mint, rocket and chilli, followed by a good lug of extra virgin olive oil and put to one side.Place a griddle pan over a high heat and toast the soughdough for around 3 to 4 minutes, or until nicely bar-marked and golden, turning halfway.
Using tongs, remove the toasted sourdough to a serving board, then halve the garlic clove and rub all over one side of the bread.
Drizzle over a little extra virgin olive oil, halve the tomatoes and rub into the bread, then tear over the mozzarella.Season the cedro salad to taste, then toss well to combine and pile onto the bruschetta.
Serve right away.
Heat the stock.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic.
Trim and finely chop the celery.Put 2 tablespoons of olive oil and the knob of butter into a separate pan, add the onion, garlic and celery, and cook very slowly for about 15 minutes without colouring.
This is called a soffrito.
When the vegetables have softened, add the rice and turn up the heat.The rice will now begin to lightly fry, so keep stirring it.
After a minute it will look slightly translucent.
Add the vermouth or wine and keep stirring – it will smell fantastic.
Any harsh alcohol flavours will evaporate and leave the rice with a tasty essence.Once the vermouth or wine has cooked into the rice, add your first ladle of hot stock and a good pinch of sea salt.
Turn the heat down to a simmer so the rice doesn't cook too quickly on the outside.
Keep adding ladlefuls of stock, stirring and massaging the creamy starch out of the rice, allowing each ladleful to be absorbed before adding the next.
This will take around 15 minutes.
Taste the rice to check if it’s cooked.
If not, carry on adding stock until the rice is soft but with a slight bite.
Don’t forget to check the seasoning carefully.
If you run out of stock before the rice is cooked, add some boiling water.Remove from the heat and add the 70g butter and grate in the Parmesan.
Stir well.
Place a lid on the pan and allow to sit for 2 minutes.
This is the most important part of making the perfect risotto, as this is when it becomes amazingly creamy and oozy like it should be.
Eat it as soon as possible, while it retains its beautiful texture.
Fill a large pan with cold water, add a good pinch of sea salt and put it on a high heat.
Peel 1 large swede (roughly 1kg), and cut it into 2 centimetres chunks.
Once the water is boiling, add the swede and cook for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, peel 1kg of potatoes and cut them into 2.5 centimetres chunks.
When the 15 minutes is up, add the potatoes and cook for a further 10 to 15 minutes, or until everything is soft and cooked through.
Drain, leave to steam dry for a minute, then mash with a good pinch of salt and white pepper and a knob of butter.




This forkful has a Greek vibe to it that really works.
Use a speed peeler to peel a courgette into ribbons.
If you can get different colours of courgettes then having those colours together on the fork is a really nice touch.
Take two ribbons in your hand and add a small chunk of feta cheese, a destoned green olive, a mint leaf and a tiny sprinkle of finely chopped fresh red chilli.
Wrap everything up in the courgette ribbons then stab with a fork.
Also try:
Fig, mozzarella and Parma ham
Smoked salmon with horseradish and beetroot
Bresaola with mustard and coleslaw
Prawns and Marie Rose sauce
Pick the leaves off the mint and parsley and put them to one side.
Pour all the rice and barley into a deep saucepan with the bulb of garlic and the herb stalks and cover with cold water.
Bring to the boil and simmer gently for 20 minutes.
If using farro cook for 30 minutes before adding the rice, as it needs around 50 minutes in total.
Check the grains are soft to the bite then cook for 1 minute more.
Drain through a sieve, saving the cooking water.
Keep the grains in the sieve and place it over the saucepan containing the cooking water.
Cover with a lid and place back on the heat so the grains steam for about 10 minutes.
Turn off the heat and tip the grains into a bowl to cool down.
Pick out and discard the herb stalks, then pick out the garlic bulb and squeeze all the cloves so the garlic inside goes into a bowl.
Lightly mash the garlic with the back of a fork.
Chop the herb leaves and stir these into the garlic.
Season well with salt, pepper, plenty of extra virgin olive oil and the lemon juice.
Stir this dressing through the cooled grains.
Give it a taste and adjust the seasoning if you need to.
Heat a splash of olive oil in a frying pan and add the fennel and cumin seeds and the oats.
Stir and fry for a few minutes until the seeds start smelling fantastic and the oats are lightly toasted.
Spoon the grain mixture into a serving dish, stirring through half of the spiced, toasted oats and sprinkling the rest over the top.
Drizzle with a little more olive oil, scatter some chopped parsley over the top and serve.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Prick the whole aubergines all over with a fork and steam in a colander over a pan of simmering water for 30 minutes, then halve, scoop out and roughly chop the flesh.Meanwhile, peel and finely slice the garlic and pick the thyme leaves.Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat, add the garlic, thyme and aubergine, then crumble over the chilli and cook for 10 minutes.Tip in the tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon, then add the balsamic vinegar.Pick in most of the basil leaves, then bring to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened and reduced, then taste and season to perfection with sea salt and black pepper.Grate the Parmesan and half the Cheddar, roughly slicing the remaining Cheddar.To layer up, spread a layer of tomato sauce across the base of an ovenproof dish.
Sprinkle lightly with grated cheese, cover with a layer of lasagne sheets, then repeat the layers twice more.
Finish with a layer of sauce, sprinkle with the remaining grated cheese and dot over the slices of Cheddar.
Bake at the bottom of the oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden and bubbling.Pick over the remaining basil, drizzle lightly with extra virgin, then serve.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Bring the stock to a simmer in a saucepan and keep warm.
In a separate large pan, add a splash of olive oil, the onion and celery, and cook gently for about 15 minutes until softened.
Add the rice and turn up the heat a bit.
Keep stirring to stop it catching.
After a minute or two, pour in the vermouth or wine and stir constantly until the alcohol has evaporated, leaving the rice with a lovely perfume.
Turn down the heat and add a ladleful of warm stock.
Keep stirring until the rice has fully absorbed the stock, then add another ladleful.
Continue to add the stock, one ladleful at a time, until it’s all absorbed.
This should take about 15 minutes and give you rice that is beginning to soften but is still al dente.
Meanwhile, pop the goat’s cheese onto a roasting tray, sprinkle over the fennel seeds and red chilli, and place in the oven for 10 minutes.
Next, heat a deep saucepan on a medium heat, then add 1 tablespoon of butter, a splash of olive oil, the garlic and a good grating of nutmeg.
Once the butter has melted, add the sorrel and cook for about 2 minutes, moving it around until it’s just wilted down.
Take the pan off the heat, let the sorrel cool slightly, then chop it finely and season to taste.
Take the pan of rice off the heat, add the chopped sorrel and beat in the remaining butter and grated Parmesan.
Add a good squeeze of lemon juice, then check the seasoning and add a little salt and pepper if needed.
Pop a lid on the pan and leave the risotto to rest for a minute, while you remove the goat’s cheese from the oven.
Dish up your risotto, grate a little lemon zest over the top, drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil, and top with another grating of Parmesan.
Serve with the lovely roasted goat’s cheese on the side for everyone to crumble over the top.
Pop the bread on a hot griddle pan and toast it on both sides.
Roughly mash the leftover vegetables.
Season with sea salt and black pepper, drizzle over some extra virgin olive oil and a little splash of balsamic, then mash again.
Halve the garlic clove, then rub the cut-sides all over the toast, then spoon the mashed vegetables on top.
Pick and roughly chop the parsley leaves, then scatter on top.
Pick the mint leaves, then toss with the salad leaves, a good pinch of salt, a splash of extra virgin olive oil, a drizzle of balsamic and a squeeze of lemon juice.
Put a pinch of salad leaves on top of the bruschetta, then shave over some Parmesan.
Finish with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and serve right away with the rest of the salad on the side.
The bread is best sliced one centimetre thick and toasted on a barbecue, but it can also be done in a griddle pan for ease at home.
After that it should be lightly rubbed a couple of times with a cut clove of garlic, then drizzled with some good extra virgin olive oil and sprinkled with salt and pepper.
The toppings can be as humble or as luxurious as you like, from chopped herbs or a squashed tomato with basil, to marinated vegetables or beautiful cheeses, to lovely flaked crabmeat.
The only rule is that whatever goes on top of a bruschetta should be nice and fresh and cooked with care.Make sure your tomatoes are really ripe when making this topping.
Give them a wash, remove their cores and carefully squeeze out the seeds.
Place in a bowl, tear in the basil, season with salt and pepper, then toss with a good glug of olive oil and a good swig of vinegar to balance the flavours to your taste.
You can serve the tomatoes either chunky or finely chopped, or you can scrunch them between your fingers before putting them on your basic bruschette – really tasty.
This salad with radicchio is one of my favourite winter salads – the crispness of the bread, the saltiness of the feta cheese.
It comes with quite a sweet dressing which compliments the bitterness of the leaves perfectly.
A great little starter.
You don’t need to buy expensive balsamic vinegar for this one – the cheap stuff is fine as you’ll be reducing it into a lovely dressing.Cut the radicchio into quarters.
Grill in a dry, very hot griddle pan until nicely charred on all sides.
Remove to a large bowl and griddle the slices of bread.
To make the warm dressing, fry the sliced garlic, pine nuts and raisins in a little olive oil.
When the garlic starts to colour, take the pan off the heat and pour in the balsamic vinegar.
Most of the liquid will evaporate when it hits the hot pan, so you end up with a sticky dressing.
Leave to cool a little.
Roughly tear up the grilled radicchio and bread, and place back in the large bowl.
Toss with the dressing, then squeeze out the dressing.
Divide the radicchio and bread over your plates.
Top with the rocket leaves, any pine nuts and raisins left in the bowl, and crumble the feta over the top.
To make the basil oil, pick the basil leaves and finely chop the stalks.
Put a few leaves in a bowl of cold water for later, then place the rest in a pestle and mortar.
Add a pinch of sea salt and bash the basil leaves until they have broken down into a dark green paste.
Transfer the paste to a jug and add your extra virgin olive oil.
Mix together well.
To make the soup, add a lug of olive oil to your biggest pan over a medium heat.
Peel and slice the garlic and add to the pan with the basil stalks.
Fry for about a minute then add all the tomatoes.
Stir in 150 millimetres of water and bring to the boil.
Reduce to a medium heat and let the tomatoes cook for 5 minutes until they are slightly broken down.
If your tomatoes are nice and ripe they’ll be naturally sweet and soft, which means you won’t need to cook the soup for too long.
Remove the soup from the heat, add a splash of red wine vinegar then carefully blitz with a hand blender until you get a consistency that’s to your liking.
Serve in warm bowls with a spoonful of bright green basil oil swirled on top and sprinkled with the reserved basil leaves.
You can even eat any leftovers cold from the fridge for a really fresh, light soup.
Place the flours and ½ tablespoon of sea salt into a large bowl, and make a well in the middle.
Add the yeast and sugar to the lukewarm water, and mix with a fork.
Leave this for a few minutes and, when it starts to foam, slowly pour it into the well, mixing with a fork as you go.
As soon as all the ingredients come together, which may take a minute or so, knead vigorously for around 5 minutes until you have a smooth, springy, soft dough.
Lightly oil a large bowl with some olive oil and transfer the dough to the bowl.
Dust with a little extra flour, cover with a tea towel and leave to prove in a warm place for 30 minutes until doubled in size.
While the dough is rising, preheat your oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7 and prepare the toppings.
For the balsamic onion topping, finely slice the onions and pick the thyme leaves.
Fry the onions and thyme in 2 tablespoons of olive oil over a low heat for about 5 minutes.
Add 6 tablespoons of balsamic vinegar, reduce for a minute or two, then leave to cool.
For the basil and cherry tomato topping, pick and roughly chop the basil leaves and halve the tomatoes.
Pop the basil and tomatoes into a bowl and season with sea salt and black pepper, a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a tiny splash of white wine vinegar.
Peel and slice the garlic and mix into the bowl.
To cook the focaccia, as soon as the dough has risen, pound it, then place on a baking tray and spread it out to cover the tray.
Push down roughly on top of the dough like a piano to make lots of rough dips and wells.
Divide the onion and the tomato toppings over two thirds of the focaccia.For the three-cheese and rosemary topping, break up the Taleggio and the goat’s cheese over the remaining third of the focaccia.
Grate a handful of Parmesan cheese and pick the rosemary leaves.
Sprinkle both over the final third and season with pepper.
Finish with a good drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a sprinkle of sea salt.
Leave to prove for a further 20 minutes, then bake for 20 minutes, until golden on top and soft in the middle.
As kids love pasta and tomato sauce, this is an easy way to encourage them to try asparagus.
Like the ‘full of veg’ tomato sauce you can always whiz the asparagus in a blender if you think they’ll be suspicious of the green bits.
The tomato does a good job of mellowing the flavour of the asparagus and once they’re used to eating it there are loads of wonderful dishes you can introduce them to.Heat a saucepan over a medium heat and add a nice lug of olive oil.
Add the garlic and fry until it turns a light golden brown.
Add the chopped basil stalks and tinned tomatoes, and bring to the boil.
Season with pepper and a tiny pinch of salt, then simmer for 5 minutes.
Snap the woody ends off the asparagus stalks and throw them away.
You can either chop the asparagus finely with a knife or use a food processor.
Add it to the tomato sauce, let it simmer for 1 minute or so, then take it off the heat.
Taste, and add a little salt and pepper if needed.
Finish off the sauce by stirring in the basil leaves.
Cook the tagliatelle according to the packet instructions, then drain, reserving some of the pasta water.
Toss in the pasta sauce with a little of the water to loosen.
Serve with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and plenty of Parmesan cheese.
These gorgeous deep-fried mushrooms have the most unbelievable texture and make a brilliant starter or, even better, a simple snack.
In fact, they’re so delicious I end up eating them as soon as they come out of the pan, so not all of them make it to the table!
You can use one type of mushroom – like I’ve done here with the field mushrooms – or a mixture.
Tearing them up into different sizes will add a wonderful mixture of textures, colours and flavours.Start by making your posh, flavoured vinegar.
Put the whole sprigs of tarragon and thyme, the peppercorns and garlic slices into a bottle, then top with the vinegar, making sure it completely covers all the herbs and spices.
Allow the vinegar to steep for at least a few hours and, remember, the longer you leave it, the more delicious it will become.
You can let it infuse for a couple of weeks to really push up the flavour and, as long as you strain the vinegar after this time and bottle it up, you can keep using it for a good few months.
Fill a deep pan with the olive oil and let it heat up over a medium heat.
Meanwhile, put the flour on a large plate with a generous pinch of salt and pepper and the lemon zest.
Cut or tear the mushrooms into uneven chunks, and sprinkle them with a bit of water to moisten them.
Toss handfuls of the mushrooms in the seasoned flour until they are all lightly coated.
To test if the oil is hot enough, add a small piece of potato to the pan.
Once it begins to sizzle and brown, the oil is ready.
Deep-fry the mushrooms in batches – about a handful at a time - until they’re golden brown.
The cooking time will depend on the size of the mushrooms but it shouldn’t take more than 3 or 4 minutes – just use your instincts.
Remove from the oil using a slotted spoon and leave on kitchen paper to drain for a minute.
Serve as soon as possible sprinkled with a pinch of salt, some posh vinegar and some roughly chopped parsley.
Delicious!
Place all the crumpet ingredients into a food processor, add 2 teaspoons of sea salt and 600 millimetres of tepid water and blitz to a loose batter.Leave to stand for 10 minutes to let the yeast develop – the mixture should be quite wet, just about dropping consistency.Meanwhile, make the topping.
Finely grate the lemon zest into a bowl, add ricotta and honey, then beat together until light and fluffy.
Mash half the raspberries with a fork and ripple through the ricotta.Grease the inside of the metal rings with oil, then place in a non-stick frying pan on a medium heat – work in batches, according to the number of metal rings you have.
When the pan’s nice and hot, spoon some mixture into each ring, so it’s roughly one centimetre deep.
Turn the heat down to low and leave for 15 minutes to cook through – keep an eye on them and reduce the heat slightly, if you think the bottoms are getting too dark.
When the time’s up, bubbles and crumpet-like dimples should have formed on the top — turn the crumpets over, using tongs to lift the rings away.
Cook for another 5 to 10 minutes, or perfectly golden.Serve the crumpets warm with a generous spoonful of ricotta, a scattering of fresh raspberries and an extra drizzle of honey, if you like.
This crunchy radish pickle makes a lovely, fresh friend for your favourite curryFinely slice the large radishes – a speed peeler is ideal for this.
For the smaller radishes, you can just top and tail them and then slice into quarters.
To make your dressing, lightly toast your cumin and then bash up in a pestle and mortar with the small dried chilli and your grated ginger.
Add in the lime juice and oil, season with salt and pepper, and then give it all a good stir.
Put your radishes into a bowl with the coriander leaves, and lightly toss together with the dressing (you can make this up to 2 hours in advance).
Heat a stainless-steel saucepan and add a splash of vegetable oil.
Fry the garlic until light brown, add the cumin seeds, the tomatoes, the tamarind paste, the mango chunks, the apricots and the brown sugar.
Turn the heat down and simmer gently for about 15 minutes or so, or until the chutney reduces and thickens slightly.
Taste and season with more salt, sugar or lime juice if necessary, and put to one side to cool.
Add a little grated lime zest before serving.
This is based on the Italian classic mostarda, which is fruit pickled in mustard syrup.
They eat it with cheese and poached meats, and I love it with ham, pork and chicken.Sprinkle the tablespoon of salt over the pears in a colander.
Put 150 millimetres water in a saucepan, add the sugar and simmer for 10 minutes until syrupy.
Turn the heat down and add the mustard seeds and powder, ginger, vinegar and chilli.
Simmer for a further 10 minutes.
Drain the excess liquid from the pears and add to the pan with the extra salt.
Cook gently for 5–8 minutes until softened slightly.
Stir in the mint.
Cool a little, then spoon into sterilized jars, closing the lids tightly.
Squeeze the lemon through your fingers into a mixing bowl, catching the pips as they come out.
Add three times as much olive oil to the lemon juice and season well with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Whisk well.
Core and thinly slice each apple.
Toss with the fennel and walnuts in the dressing and divide between smaller bowls.
Crumble the Gorgonzola over the top of each, then scatter with the fresh peas and the leafy fennel tops to serve.
A lovely, warming winter soup that’s easy to make.
It looks wicked in little tea cups with chilli, coriander and fresh coconut sprinkled on the top.Roughly chop the squash into big chunks, then set aside.
Whiz the lime leaves, if using, 3 of the chillies, the garlic, ginger, lemongrass, coriander stalks, Chinese five spice and cumin to a dryish paste in a food processor.
Discard the stringy bits, if any.
Heat the oil in a deep saucepan over a medium-low heat.
Add the spice paste and onion and cook gently for about 10 minutes, stirring to release the flavours.
Add the squash and stock, and stir around, scraping all the goodness off the bottom of the pan.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer, with the lid on, for about 15 minutes, until the squash is soft and cooked.
Pour in the rice and give it a really good stir – the squash might begin to break up, but it doesn’t matter.
Continue to simmer, covered, for 12 minutes, until the rice is just cooked.
Add the coconut milk, stir again, taste and season carefully.
Bring back to a simmer, then add the lime juice, to taste.
Spoon into tea or coffee cups and decorate with the fresh coriander leaves, the remaining sliced chilli and some shaved fresh coconut, if using.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Pulse the flour and butter in a food processor until they start to look like breadcrumbs.
Tip into a bowl and make a well in the middle.
In another bowl, beat the eggs and milk with a fork, add a good pinch of salt and pepper and pour into the well.
Mix the flour into the eggs and milk, adding a little more milk if needed, until you have a soft, dry dough.
Split the dough evenly into 3 pieces.
Press each piece out flat on your work surface and sprinkle 1 piece with mustard powder, 1 with cumin powder and the last with grated cheese.
Roll up each piece and knead lightly until the flavouring is just mixed in, trying not to handle the mixture too much.
Press or roll the dough pieces flat again, until they are about 2.5 centimetres thick.
Cut out 2 circles from each piece with an 8 centimetres cutter or the rim of a glass, and place upside down on a baking sheet.
Brush the top of each scone with the extra milk and bake in the oven for 15 minutes, until risen and brown.
Gently boil the potatoes in salted water until tender.
Drain and leave to cool slightly.
Whisk the mustard with the vinegar and slowly add the olive oil.
Add the chopped shallots and parsley and season well with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Slice the cooked potatoes in half and dress with the shallot and parsley vinaigrette.
Gently boil the potatoes in salted water until tender.
Drain well and leave to cool slightly.
Make the mayonnaise by whisking together the egg yolk and English mustard in a bowl.
Then add the olive oil very gradually, drop by drop – once you’ve blended in a quarter of the oil, add the rest a little more quickly, whisking all the time.
Pound the garlic with a pinch of salt in a pestle and mortar and add to the mayonnaise.
Season with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice.
Slice the cooked potatoes in half and dress with the garlic mayonnaise.
Turn the cress punnets on their sides and slice the cress stalks near the base.
If the cress is a bit dirty, give it a good wash before folding into the dressed potatoes.
Then tuck in and enjoy!
Bring a pot of salted water to the boil and add your cauliflower.
Bring back to the boil for 1 minute, then remove the florets with a slotted spoon and leave in a colander.
Keep the cauliflower water to one side.
Heat a wide pan big enough to hold all the ingredients at once.
Add a good splash of vegetable oil and when it’s hot, add the mustard seeds, the asafoetida, the curry leaves and turmeric.
Fry for a few seconds then add the diced potatoes, just enough of the cauliflower water to cover them and some salt.
Cover with a lid and simmer gently until the potatoes are just cooked.
Add the peas, chillies and cauliflower florets, stir and replace the lid.
Cook over a gentle heat until everything is cooked and soft, and the liquid has reduced.
Taste and season well with salt and pepper, sprinkle with loads of chopped coriander and some coconut shavings and serve.
Egg pasta and pesto together is a piece of cooking genius really, and just about the only successful tweak you can make is to add a few green beans and some very thinly sliced potato – like they often do in Genoa.If you haven’t had it before, try it – you’ll like it, and it’s really quick and easy.Bring a large pan of water to the boil.
Meanwhile, crush the pine nuts in a pestle and mortar with the garlic.
Scoop out, put to one side, then put the basil in the mortar with a pinch of sea salt and bash until it turns into a green paste.
Return the bashed nuts and garlic to the mortar with the lemon juice, a few tablespoons of oil and half the pecorino.
Stir together and season well with salt and a little pepper.
Peel the potatoes, discarding the peel, then continue stripping the potato with the peeler until you have a pile of thin potato strips.
Add some salt to the boiling water and add the tagliatelle, the trimmed beans and the potato strips.
Cook for 2–3 minutes until the beans are cooked but still have a slight bite, the pasta is al dente and the potatoes are cooked through.
Drain in a colander, reserving a little of the cooking water.
Toss the cooked pasta and vegetables in a bowl with the pesto.
Taste and season again, if necessary.
Add a little of the reserved pasta cooking water to moisten the sauce if it’s a little thick and claggy.
Serve sprinkled with the remaining pecorino and extra basil.
Peel and finely grate the ginger into a large bowl, add all the remaining ingredients, chopping any larger pieces of fruit first, and mix well to combine.Cover and pop in the fridge overnight to soak and swell.
Serve topped with fresh fruit – delicious with sliced banana, grapes and finely grated lime zest.
Any leftovers will keep happily in the fridge for up to 4 days.
To make your dressing, put the goat’s cheese in a pestle and mortar with a little sea salt and black pepper.
(Goat’s cheese is salty anyway, so go easy on the salt).
Add the olive oil and juice of the lemon and mix up.
Add the walnut oil and the Parmesan and mix again, but not for too long or it will split.Put your peaches, cut-side down, on to a white-hot griddle pan and char them nicely on both sides.
Remove and put on a large platter or divide between four plates.Drizzle the peaches with a little olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Put your frisée or endive leaves into a bowl with enough of your goat’s cheese dressing to coat the leaves, and toss together gently and beautifully.Grate a little Parmesan over the dressed salad and put a pile of it on each plate, next to the peach halves.
Scatter over some baby mint leaves.
A genius, simple combo!PS Some warmed, crumbly walnuts would be delicious sprinkled over the top.
Also a plate of Parma ham, Spanish serrano ham or speck would be great to serve next to this salad.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Peel and chop the sweet potatoes into bite-sized chunks, then place onto a baking tray.Sprinkle with a pinch each of cayenne, cumin, cinnamon, sea salt and black pepper, drizzle with oil then toss to coat.
Roast for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until golden and tender.Peel and roughly chop the onion.
Halve, deseed and roughly chop the peppers, then peel and finely slice the garlic.Pick the coriander leaves, finely chopping the stalks.
Deseed and finely chop the chillies.Meanwhile, put 2 tablespoons of oil in a large pan over a medium-high heat, then add the onion, peppers and garlic, and cook for 5 minutes, stirring regularly.Add the coriander stalks, chillies and spices, and cook for a further 5 to 10 minutes, or until softened and starting to caramelise, stirring occasionally.Add the beans, juice and all.
Tip in the tomatoes, breaking them up with the back of a spoon, then stir well.Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to medium-low and leave to tick away for 25 to 30 minutes, or until thickened and reduced – keep an eye on it, and add a splash of water to loosen, if needed.Stir the roasted sweet potato through the chilli with most of the coriander leaves, then taste and adjust the seasoning, if needed.Finish with a squeeze of lime or lemon juice or a swig of vinegar, to taste, then scatter over the remaining coriander.
Delicious served with yoghurt or soured cream, guacamole and rice, or tortilla chips.
In a little vegetable oil, fry the onion gently for 10 minutes in a large pan then add the remaining vegetables and stir together.
Add the curry base sauce and simmer gently for around 25 to 30 minutes, taking care not to overcook the vegetables.
If the sauce becomes too thick, add a little water to give you the desired consistency.
Put the flours and ground spices in a bowl and slowly pour in 250 millimetres water.
Stir with a wooden spoon or a whisk to make a bright yellow batter.
Add the salt, then put to one side.
 Cut the cucumber into long ribbons with a speed peeler and keep to one side.
To make the dressing, mix the yoghurt with the coriander and the juice of 1 of the lemons.
Add a splash of olive oil, season, and put to one side.
 Cut the leek, carrots, spring onions and red onions into thin strips - try to get them the size of long matchsticks.
Mix with the chillies and the ginger.
Pour the oil into a large non-stick frying pan and heat until very hot.
Mix the vegetables, a little at a time, with some of the batter.
Add a pinch of mustard seeds and scoop out a tablespoon of the coated vegetables.
Press flat with the back of a fork and carefully drop into the hot oil.
Repeat with the remaining vegetables - you may have to fry the bhajis in batches.
Move them around a little in the hot oil (with a pair of tongs) to make sure they aren't sticking together.
Fry for a minute or so on each side until crispy, then drain on kitchen paper.
Place some rocket and cucumber ribbons on individual plates, drizzle with the yoghurt dressing and top with 2 or 3 bhajis.
Serve with the lemon wedges.
Very finely slice or shave the beetroots and carrots, using good knife skills, a mandolin on a fine setting (use the guard!) or, most easily, a speed peeler, until you have a pile of thin, wavy, crunchy slices.
Place in a big mixing bowl.With a sharp knife, slice the celery heart and leaves, the radicchio, the radishes and the fennel as finely as you can and add to the bowl of root veg slices.Toss the root vegetables in the grilled chilli dressing, season carefully to taste with sea salt and black pepper, and serve sprinkled with the reserved fennel tops.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Wash the sweet potatoes and bake them, in their skins, in the preheated oven until cooked and soft.
Allow to cool (leaving the oven on), then peel and mash them.
Bash up 1 teaspoon of the coriander seeds and the chillies in a pestle and mortar.
Stir with the cinnamon into the mashed sweet potato and season well.
Fold the spring onions and beaten egg into the mashed potato.
Gently melt the butter in a pan.
Bash up the remaining coriander seeds.
Brush a sheet of filo with some melted butter and sprinkle with a pinch of ground cinnamon and a little of the ground coriander.
Cover with the second sheet, and brush and sprinkle as before.
Repeat for the third sheet.
With a sharp knife, cut the stacked filo sheets into two 15 centimetres squares.
 Working quickly to prevent the pastry from drying, do the same with the remaining filo sheets.
You should now have four squares of filo.
Place a generous tablespoon of the sweet potato mixture in the centre of each square and spread out slightly.
 Brush the edges of each square with water and fold in half, corner to corner, to make a triangle.
Press down at the edges to seal.
Brush both sides of each triangle with the rest of the melted butter, place on a baking tray and bake in the preheated oven until light brown - this will take about 10 minutes.
 Mix the red onion with the watercress, mint and parsley.
Mix the yoghurt with the lemon juice, a lug of olive oil and the cumin.
Dress the salad with the yoghurt dressing and serve with the hot filo briks and the lemon halves.
Trim the outside skin off the pineapple and cut out the hard core that runs down its centre.
Lay it on a chopping board and cut it into chunks with a sharp knife.
Place in a bowl.
Cut the flesh of the mango off the stone and scoop out the flesh from the skin with a spoon.
Place into the bowl with the pineapple.
Cut the papaya in half and scoop out the black seeds inside.
Scoop the fruit out of the skin in the same way as with the mango.
Place into the bowl.
Top and tail the kiwi fruit, then, sitting it on one of its flat ends, trim the furry skin off with a sharp knife.
Slice the kiwi and place into the bowl.
Squeeze the lime juice over your fruit.
Take four plates and divide the fruit between them.
Pick the mint leaves and pound most of them with the sugar in a pestle and mortar or a flavour shaker.
Spoon a little yoghurt over the top of each plate and sprinkle over the mint sugar and the rest of the mint leaves and serve.
To prepare the artichokes, simply trim 5 centimetres below and above the base of the choke.
Now what you need to do is trim back your artichoke leaves one by one, clicking them off until you get to the lovely paler yellow and more tender leaves.
Using a pointed teaspoon, insert it right into the centre of the artichoke flower and slowly turn it to remove the fluffy choke.
Have a little peer in and try to remove most of the choke.
Rub the artichoke with lemon to stop it discolouring.
You'll get the hang of it when you do the rest.
You'll be left with 8 whole trimmed artichokes.Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Toss the garlic, almonds, breadcrumbs and herbs into a bowl, season, and loosen with a little olive oil.
Scrunch together with your hands and stuff this mixture into the middle of each artichoke, really packing it in.
You want to fit these snugly side by side in an appropriately-sized baking dish.
Sprinkle any excess filling over the top, drizzle generously with extra virgin olive oil and pour in your wine.
Rip off a big enough piece of greaseproof paper, wet and scrunch it under a tap, then tuck it over the artichokes and round the edges of the dish.
Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then remove the greaseproof paper and bake for a final 10 minutes.
Serve in the middle of the table with seafood or any white meat.
Heat the stock in a pan over a moderate heat.
Heat the olive oil in a pan.
Add the onions, garlic and celery, and fry gently for about 5 minutes until softened.
Add the rice to the pan and turn up the heat.
Cook for a minute or so, stirring constantly, until the rice looks slightly translucent.
Add the wine and keep stirring - any alcohol flavours will evaporate.Once the wine has been absorbed by the rice, add your first ladle of hot stock and a good pinch of salt and pepper.
Turn the heat down to a simmer so the rice doesn't cook too quickly on the outside.
Add the stock, a ladleful at a time, stirring constantly and allowing each ladleful to be absorbed before adding the next, until the rice is cooked but still holds its shape - this takes about 15 minutes.Stir in the Appenzeller and Taleggio.
Remove the pan from the heat and season to taste, then beat in the butter and Parmesan.
Place a lid on the pan and leave to rest for 2 to 3 minutes - your risotto will get nice and oozy.
Enjoy!
Place the porcini in a small dish, add boiling water just to cover, and leave to soak.
Get a large casserole-type pan nice and hot, then add a good couple of lugs of olive oil and your fresh mushrooms.
Stir around very quickly for a minute, then add your garlic, onion and thyme and a small amount of seasoning.
After about a minute you'll probably notice moisture cooking out of the mushrooms and at this point add half of your porcini, chopped up, and the rest left whole.
Strain the soaking liquid to remove any grit, and add it to the pan.
Carry on cooking for about 20 minutes until most of the moisture disappears.Season to taste, and add your stock.
Bring to the boil and simmer for around 20 minutes.
I usually remove half the soup from the pan and whiz it up to a purée at this point, then pour it back in, adding the parsley and mascarpone, and seasoning carefully to taste.You can serve this soup as you like, but there are a few things to remember when finishing it off.
Mix together a pinch of salt and pepper with the zest of one lemon and the juice of half of it, then spoon a little of this into the middle of the soup.
When you go to eat it, stir it in and it gives a wonderful flavour.
Other things you can consider are little slices of grilled crostini put into the bottom of the bowls before the soup is poured over.
Or you could even quickly fry some nice-looking mushrooms – like girolles, chanterelles or oysters – and sprinkle these on top of the soup.
If I was going to use truffle oil, then I would use it on its own – a few drips on the top just before serving.

• adapted from Jamie's Dinners
Peel and finely slice the garlic.
Pick the basil leaves and tear into pieces.Place a large non-stick frying pan on the heat and pour in 4 generous lugs of olive oil.
Add the garlic, shake the pan around a bit and, once the garlic begins to colour lightly, add the basil and the tomatoes.
Using the back of a wooden spoon, mush and squash the tomatoes as much as you can.
 Season the sauce with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
As soon as it comes to the boil, remove the pan from the heat.
Strain the sauce through a coarse sieve into a bowl, using your wooden spoon to push any larger bits of tomato through.
Discard the basil and garlic that will be left in the sieve, but make sure you scrape any of the tomatoey goodness off the back of the sieve into the bowl.
 Pour the sauce back into the pan, bring to the boil, then turn the heat down and simmer for 5 minutes to concentrate the flavours.
It will be ready when it’s the perfect consistency for spreading on your pizza.
Store the sauce in a clean jar in the fridge – it’ll keep for a week or so.
Peel the carrots and trim the fennel.
If you're using beetroot or celeriac, peel these.
Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage, if using.Shred the carrots, fennel, and your choice of radishes, beetroot, turnip or celeriac on a mandolin (use the guard), or use the julienne slicer in your food processor.
Put the veg into a mixing bowl.
Peel the onion and shallot, and slice as finely as you can, along with the cabbage, if using.
Add these to the bowl of veg.
In a separate bowl, mix half the lemon juice, a lug of extra virgin olive oil, yoghurt and mustard.
Pick the herb leaves and chop, then stir into the dressing.Pour the dressing over the veg and mix well to coat everything.
Season to taste with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and the rest of the lemon juice, if you like.
Really delicious served with thinly sliced leftover roast lamb, pork or rare roast beef, drizzled with extra virgin olive oil.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Toss your carrots with a good lug of olive oil, a splash of vinegar, salt and pepper, the thyme sprigs and the garlic cloves.
Place in a roasting tray or earthenware dish, cover tightly with tinfoil and cook for 30 to 40 minutes until just tender.
Remove the foil and cook for a further 10 minutes until the carrots have browned and caramelized nicely.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil.
Throw in the pasta and cloves of garlic, boil until al dente, drain and run under cold water to cool.
Put the garlic to one side to use for the dressing.
Put the pasta into a bowl.
Chop the tomatoes, olives, chives, basil and cucumber into pieces about half the size of the pasta and add to the bowl.
Squash the garlic cloves out of their skins and mush in a pestle and mortar.
Add the vinegar, oil and seasoning.
Drizzle this over the salad, adding a little more seasoning to taste.
Pumpkins are so versatile, the things you can do with them are endless!
Their flavour goes well with chilli, nutmeg and sage.
If you’ve never cooked one before, you’re in for a real treat.Preheat the oven to 230 Celsius or 450 Fahrenheit or gas 8.
Cut the lid off the pumpkin and reserve it.
Scoop out the seeds with a spoon and keep them to one side.
Make the hollow where the seeds were a little bigger by scooping out some more pumpkin flesh.
Finely chop this pumpkin flesh and one of the garlic cloves.
Heat a frying pan over a medium heat.
Pour in a splash of olive oil, then add the chopped pumpkin, chopped garlic, onion, olives, and half the rosemary.
Cook gently for 10 minutes or so until the pumpkin has softened.Meanwhile, place the whole garlic clove and the remaining rosemary in a pestle and mortar.
Crumble in the dried chilli, add a good pinch of salt, pepper, nutmeg and cinnamon and bash until you have a paste.
Add a little olive oil to loosen up the mixture and then rub the inside of the pumpkin with it.Season the cooked pumpkin mixture and stir in the rice, cranberries, pistachios and tangerine zest with a pinch each of nutmeg and cinnamon.
Mix thoroughly then add the vegetable stock, bring to the boil and simmer for 3 minutes (no longer or the rice will end up overcooked later).Tear off a sheet of tin foil that’s large enough to wrap the pumpkin in a double layer and lay on top of a baking tray.
Place the pumpkin on top and spoon the rice mixture into it, then place its lid back on.
Rub the skin with a little olive oil, wrap it up in the foil and bake in the oven for about an hour.
The pumpkin is ready when you can easily push a knife into it.
Bring it to the table and open it up in front of everyone.
Cut it into thick wedges and tuck in, leaving the skin.
Serve with seasonal greens.
When you halve the peaches, leave the stones in – they will come away a lot more easily after they have been cooked.
Put them into a small pan with 4 tablespoons of the sugar, the cinnamon stick and the zest and juice of the orange.
Put a lid on top and slowly simmer for about 10 to 15 minutes, until the peach skin and stones can be easily removed.
You don't want to cook them to pulp – they should be soft but should still hold their shape.
Remove from the heat and put to one side.In an appropriately sized high-sided, thick-bottomed pan with a lid, slowly melt two-thirds of the butter.
Score down the length of the vanilla pods and remove the seeds by scraping a knife down the inside of each half.
Add the seeds to the butter and stir.
Continue to cook for 1 minute before adding your rice with the remaining sugar.
Turn the heat up to medium, stir the rice, and add the wine, continuing to stir until it has almost cooked away.
Now add the milk little by little.
Keep the rice on a slow but constant simmer for about 16 or 17 minutes and stir it as often as you can.
In this way you can massage the starch out of the rice and this will give you a silky, oozy end product, much like the classic Italian risotto.
When the rice has cooked through it should be soft yet still holding its shape.
You may need to add a little more milk or water just to adjust the consistency.
Remove from the heat, add the grated white chocolate and the rest of the butter, then stir, place a lid on top and leave for a few minutes.Remove the skin and stones from the peaches, discard them along with the cinnamon stick, and take the peaches to the table with your block of dark chocolate, snapped into small pieces.
Spoon the risotto on to plates, then push a couple of pieces of dark chocolate into the middle of each one.
Just so you know, a perfect risotto should slowly creep and ooze to the side of your plate, so don't worry if it starts to spread out!
Gently tear the peaches and place some on each plate, then drizzle over some of the lovely juice and sprinkle over a few mint leaves.
By the time you go to eat it, the dark chocolate will have melted.
Joy joy joy!
A lot of people don’t realise that pea shoots are the best part of the pea plant to eat.
They make a wonderful salad ‘leaf’.
If you can’t get hold of them, then use a mixture of rocket and baby spinach leaves instead.
Also, the point of this salad is that you use fresh, raw peas.
If you can’t get them, then make a different salad.Add your peas and pea shoots to a bowl with the radicchio.
Add the lemon juice and three times as much extra virgin olive oil.
Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Divide the salad between your plates and crumble over the cheese.
So simple, but so delicious!
Get your frying pan on a medium to low heat and add enough olive oil to lightly coat the bottom of a large nonstick pan (about 1 tablespoon).Crack the eggs into the pan.
As the oil gets hotter you’ll see it start to change the color of the eggs.
If the oil starts to spit it’s because it’s too hot, so turn the heat right down.
Cook until the tops of the whites are set but the yolk is still runny.When they’re ready, remove the pan from the heat and take the eggs out using a spatula.
Place on a plate and dab them with some paper towels to soak up any excess oil.
Serve on toast – no need to butter it – with a sprinkling of the sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.Delicious served on some 7-grain bread.
Smash up half of the pine nuts to a paste, then put it into a big heatproof bowl with the rest of the whole pine nuts, the lemon juice and zest, the finely chopped parsley and the extra virgin olive oil.
Stir and add the Parmesan and pecorino.What you should have now is a reasonably thick sauce, which you should think of more as a dressing, so taste it and think about how the different flavours are coming through.
I want you to balance the flavours so you end up with something quite zingy because, as the sauce heats up and the cheese melts, the flavour of the lemon will calm down a lot.
Season with some freshly ground black pepper.
Taste it and if you think you haven’t got the balance right, simply add a little more oil and Parmesan.Put a large pot of salted water on to boil for your pasta.
Sit the sauce bowl on top of the pan while the water’s heating up – this will take the chill out of the sauce and warm it through slightly.When the water starts to boil, remove the bowl and add your pasta to the water.
Cook it according to the packet instructions then drain in a colander, reserving a little of the cooking water.Toss the pasta with the sauce and a little of the reserved cooking water to help loosen it up a bit.
The heat from the pasta will melt the cheese, allowing all the lovely sauce to coat it.
If you find the sauce is too thick then add a little more water.
It’s not supposed to be claggy, thick and miserable, but incredibly silky, fresh and fragrant.Have one last taste to balance the flavours, and serve with a little extra Parmesan shaved over the top and a sprinkle of parsley leaves.
Eat immediately.
Cut the bigger tomatoes into slices about one and half centimetres inch thick.
You can halve the cherry tomatoes or leave them whole.
Then sprinkle them all with a good dusting of sea salt.
Put them in a colander and leave them for 30 minutes.
What's going to happen here is that the salt will draw the excess moisture out of the tomatoes, intensifying their flavour.
Don't worry about the salad being too salty, as a lot of the salt drips away.Place the tomatoes in a large bowl and dress with enough extra virgin olive oil to loosen (approximately 6 tablespoons), and 1–2 tablespoons of vinegar, but do add these to your own taste.
Toss around and check for seasoning – you may or may not need salt but will certainly need pepper.
Add the garlic.
Now start to add the horseradish.
Stir in a couple of teaspoons to begin with, toss around and taste.
If you like it a bit hotter, add a bit more horseradish.
All I do now is get some finely sliced flat-leaf parsley (stalks and leaves) and mix this into the tomatoes.
Toss everything together and serve as a wonderful salad, making sure you mop up all the juices with some nice squashy bread.This salad is fantastic with roast beef, goat's cheese or jacket potatoes.
And to be honest, even if you put these tomatoes in a roasting tray and roasted them with some sausages scattered around them it would be nice.
In summer, a light pea soup feels totally right – the watercress in this recipe adds a mustardy bite.Heat a large saucepan and pour in a little olive oil.
Throw in the chopped onion and celery.
Turn the heat down and cook very gently with the lid on for 10 minutes, or until the onion has softened, but not browned.
Add the potato and stock and bring to the boil.
Simmer for 10 minutes or until the potato is cooked.
Next, drop in the peas and watercress and simmer for a further 5 minutes until the peas are cooked.
Remove the pan from the heat.
Whiz the soup with a hand blender, or in a liquidizer, until smooth.
Taste, then season with salt and pepper.
Serve the soup with a spoonful of soured cream swirled in, a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and some crusty bread and butter.
Tip:
You can use frozen peas – just simmer them in the stock a couple of minutes
First of all, finely slice your red onion.
Once that's done, finely slice your chillies then roughly chop your tomatoes, mixing them in with the onion and chillies.
Scrape all of this, and the juice, into a bowl and dress with the juice of half a lemon and 3 tablespoons of good extra virgin olive oil.
Season to taste.
Heat the chickpeas in a pan, then add 90 per cent of them to the bowl.
Mush up the remaining chickpeas and add these as well – they will give a nice creamy consistency.
Allow to marinate for a little while and serve at room temperature.Just as you're ready to serve, give the salad a final dress with the fresh mint and basil.
Taste one last time for seasoning – you may want to add the juice from your remaining lemon half at this point.
Place on a nice serving dish and crumble over the feta cheese.
In Palermo there's a night market called Il Borgo, where all the locals gather to eat at little stalls selling things like chickpea fritters, boiled baby octopus and some stuff that you wouldn't want to eat, like gizzards, spleen and other dirty wobbly things!
A lot of the veg stalls have massive cauldrons of boiled potatoes and artichokes to serve to their customers – I guess you could say this is the original fast food – and they tasted absolutely brilliant.Some of the stalls also make a version of this salad, which is absolutely delicious.
They tend to dress it and have it hanging around for quite some time so it becomes a bit sloppy and past its best, but the principle of the salad is fantastic and all the locals absolutely adore it.
In Sicily you can get these terrific Cedro lemons which are mainly pith and they are amazing in salads – but you may not be able to get hold of them.
In this case I wouldn't recommend you use normal lemons as the flavour is quite different.
The way potatoes are cooked in Sicily is very long and very slow, on a low simmer with plenty of salt in the water.
This is a fantastic method of making normal potatoes soft and floury, but in the case of new potatoes it would be a crime.
So add them to fast-boiling salted water, as this will help retain a lot of their flavour, and cook them till nice and tender.
The softer you can get them while still holding their shape, the better.
While the potatoes are cooking, wash all your salad leaves and put them into a nice big bowl with the mint and fennel.
If using a Cedro lemon, add the slices to the salad at this point.For the dressing, mix the orange juice and vinegar in a glass jar or bowl with about twice as much extra virgin olive oil.
Add the oregano and capers and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Give it a good mix and have a taste.
Don't forget that you want the flavour to be a little over the top, so that by the time you've dressed the salad with it and it has mixed with all the other flavours it's perfect because it's become more subtle.
Drain the potatoes when cooked, then allow them to steam in a colander for 5 minutes.
Throw them into the salad while still warm and toss together well.
Absolutely fantastic – great with a plate of grilled fish or as a lunchie salad on its own.
Crush the garlic and finely slice the chilli and spring onion.
Peel and finely slice the red onion, and mix with the garlic, chilli and spring onion.
Shred the mangetout, slice the mushrooms and water chestnuts, and mix with the shredded cabbage in a separate bowl to the onion mixture.Heat your wok until it’s really hot.
Add a splash of oil – it should start to smoke – then the chilli and onion mix.
Stir for just 2 seconds before adding the other mix.
Flip and toss the vegetables in the wok if you can; if you can’t, don’t worry, just keep the vegetables moving with a wooden spoon, turning them over every few seconds so they all keep feeling the heat of the bottom of the wok.
Season with sea salt and black pepper.
After a minute or two, the vegetables should have begun to soften.
Add the soy sauce and 1 teaspoon of sesame oil and stir in.
After about 30 seconds the vegetables should smell amazing!
Tip on to a serving dish, sprinkle over some sesame seeds and tuck in.
One of the things I love to do is to stir-fry the corn kernels in a hot wok or frying pan with 2 tablespoons of olive oil, a tablespoon of chopped ginger, a teaspoon of chopped chilli, a handful of chopped fresh parsley and a couple of tablespoons of low-salt soy sauce.
You can vary the flavours with different herbs, but this is a good base to start with.
This is a great way to cook aubergines, and probably one that not a lot of people would think of doing.
To me, steamed aubergine sounds horrible but, believe me, this recipe is fantastic.
Aubergines are usually fried or roasted, which makes them soak up loads of oil, but steaming means they go really soft and tender so that they're lighter to eat – which means you can eat a lot more!
All round the world there are so many different varieties of aubergines – long, round, purple, green – so keep your eyes peeled and try cooking them all.Put some water in a pan and bring it to the boil.
Slice the aubergines in half lengthways and place them in your steamer with the cut side facing up.
Steam them for about 10 minutes – to check whether they're ready, simply squeeze the sides gently and if they're silky soft then they're done.
Remove them from the steamer, place them in a colander and leave to cool.Now make your dressing by mixing all the ingredients together.
When the aubergines are warm this is the perfect time to flavour them.
Cut them up into rough 2.5 centimetres dice, then dress them and toss.
Serve immediately as a salad, tapas dish or as a vegetable next to any simple cooked fish.
Just really tasty!
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Place the squash on a baking tray, drizzle with olive oil and pop in the hot oven for around 15 minutes, or until tender.Pour a couple of lugs of olive oil into a large frying pan, add the garlic and basil stalks and fry for a couple of minutes.
Add your tomatoes to the pan, breaking them up with a wooden spoon and bring to the boil.
Drop in the roasted squash, bring to the boil, then simmer for 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to the boil, add the penne and cook for a couple of minutes less than it says on the packet.
Drain, then toss with the sauce.
Tear up the basil leaves and sprinkle into the pan with some salt and pepper.
Stir in the ricotta and the stock, then bring back to the boil.
Rub a large baking tray, ovenproof pan or earthenware dish with olive oil and spoon in all the pasta and sauce.
Tear over the ball of mozzarella and top with the Parmesan.
Rub the sage leaves with a little olive oil and put on top.
Pop it into the preheated oven and bake for 15 minutes or until golden and bubbling.
Serve with a crisp green salad.
Tip: If you're a chilli freak like me, try adding a chopped fresh chilli to your tomato sauce.
 
Bring a pot of stock to the boil, then you need to get all the vegetables prepared and put to one side.
The fennel has to be halved, sliced and finely chopped; the asparagus needs to have the woody ends removed, the stalks finely sliced and the tips left whole; the cauliflowers need to be divided into small florets; the courgettes need to be quartered lengthways and finely chopped, and finally the tomatoes need to be blanched, cut in half, seeds removed and finely sliced.
Now you’re ready to rock and roll.Drizzle 5 tablespoons of olive oil into a casserole pan and place on a medium heat.
Peel and finely slice the garlic, trim and finely chop the spring onions  and add both to the pan with the fennel.
Gently fry for 15 minutes without colouring.Trim and finely slice the green beans, pod the peas and broad beans, and break up the pasta, then add to the pan with the rest of the prepared vegetables and the boiling stock.
Bring to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes while you pick and finely chop the basil leaves and chives.
Season the soup with sea salt and black pepper, and serve in big bowls with a dollop of fresh pesto in the middle, a sprinkling of chopped basil and chives, and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Peel the onion, garlic and ginger, and roughly chop.
Heat a splash of olive oil and the butter in a large saucepan.
Add the onion, garlic, ginger and garam masala.
Gently fry for 10 minutes or until the onions are soft and sweet.Meanwhile, peel the parsnips and chop into 3 centimetres chunks.
Stir them into the onion mixture until well coated.
Pour in the milk and stock, season well and bring to the boil.
Turn down the heat and simmer for 30 minutes with a lid on.After half an hour, check that the parsnips are cooked by sticking a knife in.
If you’re happy, remove them from the heat and blitz with a stick blender until smooth and creamy.
Have a taste and adjust the seasoning as required.Deseed and finely chop the chilli, and scatter over the soup, if you like.
Delicious served with crusty bread and an extra drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Boil any larger white-skinned broad beans for 30 seconds, then drain.
When cool, pinch their skins off – they’ll taste less bitter if you do this.
Now whiz the coriander and half the mint in a food processor.Season with sea salt and black pepper, then add the spices, chilli, broad beans and lemon zest and whiz until finely chopped (stopping once or twice to scrape the mixture off the sides).
Sprinkle in the flour and pulse for a few seconds.
Don’t add any more flour or the mixture will become too dry.Get a large saucepan and pour in the vegetable oil till it’s 5 to 7 centimetres deep.
Be careful – keep kids and pets away, and make sure the handle isn’t sticking out so you don’t accidentally catch it and spill the hot oil.Heat the oil.
To check whether it’s hot enough for frying, drop in the piece of potato – as soon as it sizzles and floats to the top, you’re in business.
Remove the potato and discard it.Cover a plate with a sheet of greaseproof paper.
Scoop up a small amount of the broad bean mixture and either use your hands or two spoons to shape it into little rounds, then put them on to the plate.When they’re all done, carefully lower one of them into the hot oil with a slotted spoon and drain on a plate lined with kitchen paper.
When you’re got the hang of it, fry the rest of them – they should all fit into the pan at the same time but, if not, simply do batches.For your lemon minted yoghurt, squeeze half the lemon juice into the yoghurt.
Pick and chop the rest of your mint leaves and stir them in, adding salt and pepper to taste.
Dress your salad leaves with a squeeze of lemon juice and some olive oil.
Sprinkle the fritters with salt and serve with the lemon minted yoghurt, the dressed salad leaves and some pickled chillies.
Deseed the chillies and peel the onions, then finely chop both.
Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat, add the mustard seeds and fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until they start to pop.Add the chillies, curry leaves, onions, coriander, cumin seeds, garam masala, turmeric, and chilli powder to the pan, and cook for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the onions are soft.Meanwhile, roughly chop the tomatoes, and peel and cube the sweet potatoes, regular potatoes and aubergine.Stir in the chopped tomatoes, potatoes and aubergine, then pour in the coconut milk and cook until the potato is tender, stirring occasionally.Slice the okra and trim the beans, then add to the pan with the peas for a further few minutes, until tender, but still with a bit of bite.Taste and season to perfection with sea salt and black pepper, then serve with some fluffy rice.
Peel the celeriac, then slice about one and half centimetres inch off the bottom of it and roll it on to that flat edge, so it's nice and safe to slice.
Slice and dice it all up into one and half centimetres inch-ish cubes.
Don't get your ruler out – they don't have to be perfect.
Put a casserole-type pot on a high heat, add 3 good lugs of olive oil, then add the celeriac.
Pick in the thyme leaves and peel and finely chop the garlic, and add both with a little sea salt and black pepper.
Stir around to coat and fry quite fast, giving a little colour, for 5 minutes.
Turn the heat down to a simmer, add the water or stock, place a lid on top and cook for around 25 minutes, until tender.
Season carefully to taste and stir around with a spoon to smash up the celeriac.
Some people like to keep it in cubes, some like to mash it, but I think it looks and tastes much better if you smash it, which is somewhere in the middle.
You can serve this with just about any meat you can think of.
Preheat the oven to 170 Celsius or 325 Fahrenheit or gas 3.Score the tops of the tomatoes with a cross.
Take an earthenware dish that the tomatoes will fit snugly into, and sprinkle the garlic and basil all over the bottom of it.
Stand the tomatoes next to each other in the tray, on top of the garlic and basil, then push the bay leaves well into the scores in the tomatoes and season well.
Lay the leeks on a board and sprinkle generously with salt and pepper.
Using a rolling pin, press down on top of the leeks to really squeeze the seasoning into them.
This will also loosen their texture.
Weave the leeks in and around the tomatoes.
Pour over the balsamic vinegar, drizzle over the olive oil, and bake in the preheated oven for an hour.
Before serving, remove the bay leaves.Try this:
These tomatoes are great served as a vegetable dish, or as part of a warm salad.
Also good as a base for soup, puréed to make a sauce or served over pasta.
Halve the tomatoes and stone the olives.
Peel and finely chop the garlic.In a large bowl, scrunch the tomatoes with your hands to slightly mush them.
Mix in the olives, garlic and 1 tablespoon of vinegar.
Pick and tear in the basil and marjoram leaves and pour in 10 tablespoons of the olive oil.
Allow to sit for 10 minutes.
 Cook your pasta in salted boiling water according to the packet instructions until al dente.
Drain and quickly toss in with the tomatoes.
Call your guests around the table, then taste the juice at the bottom of the bowl and adjust the seasoning if you feel it needs it.
Serve right away.
Top your green beans, leaving the tails on.
Blanch the beans in boiling, salted water for 3 to 4 minutes, then drain and leave them to one side to cool down.
Meanwhile tear, wash and dry the leaves of your little gem and cos lettuce.
Peel your cucumber and carrot.
Cut the cucumber in half lengthways, and remove and discard the inner core.
Finely slice the cucumber and carrot.
Finely slice the celery heart lengthways.To serve, mix all the ingredients together, add enough of your favourite dressing to coat and toss together, making sure that everything is dressed nicely.
This is the most underrated vegetable in the whole of the United Kingdom.
It's available in every single supermarket, we walk past it all the time, and yet we still take no notice of it.
It's an incredible vegetable, it's really good for you and you only need to use 2 or 3 ingredients to bring it to life and blow people's socks off.Shave off the celeriac ends and throw them away, then use your knife to peel away the outside skin, cutting away any cracks and crannies as you go.
Once you've cut the edge you’ll be able to see the thickness of the skin you need to peel away.
Chop the celeriac up into slices, then into rough one centimetre cubes.Put a casserole-type pan on a medium-high heat and add a lug of olive oil.
Rip in the lemon thyme - the smells from this will be outrageous – then go straight in with the diced celeriac and a generous pinch of salt.
Turn the heat down to medium, pop the lid on and cook for 20 to 25 minutes, or until tender.
Make sure you keep it moving - you want it to fry lightly from the bottom, and kind of steam in its own moisture.
At this stage, you have two choices.
You can either serve it up blonde or you can take the lid off and fry for a further 4 minutes or so, to take the colour much darker.
This is such a flexible recipe, you can make it the day before and reheat when you need, or you can blitz it up with some stock for a delicious soup.
Give it a try.
Jerusalem artichokes are sweet and almost garlicky and mushroomy and gorgeous.
Although called artichokes they’re actually tubers – like rough and ready potatoes.
You can scrub and roast them whole like mini jacket potatoes and split them open, drizzled with a little chilli oil.
You can even use them in a salad with smoky bacon.
A Jerusalem artichoke’s best friends are sage, thyme, butter, bacon, bay, cream, breadcrumbs, cheese and anything smoked.To serve 4, you will need 600g/1lb 6oz of Jerusalem artichokes.
Peel them, then cut them into chunks.
Place them in an oiled frying pan and fry on a medium heat until golden on both sides, then add a few bay leaves, 2 cloves of garlic, finely sliced, a splash of white wine vinegar, some salt and pepper, and place a lid on top.
After about 20 to 25 minutes they will have softened up nicely and you can remove the lid and the bay leaves.
Continue cooking for a couple of minutes to crisp the artichoke slices up one last time, then serve straight away.
Personally, I think they go well with both meat and fish and are particularly good in a plate of antipasti, or in soups or warm salads.
Peel the garlic and pick the herb leaves, then finely chop on a large board with the capers, gherkins and anchovies.Place in a bowl, add the mustard and vinegar, then slowly stir in the oil until you achieve the right consistency.
Balance the flavours with black pepper, a bit of sea salt and maybe a little more vinegar.
I'm not quite sure where I got the inspiration for this recipe – I think it was actually when I was making bread one day and I incorporated some really sweet caramelized garlic and almonds into a focaccia.
There's a slightly Spanish feel to the main ingredients – think of it as putting a bunch of old friends together and having a good party!
My mother's initial reaction was, ‘My God, that's a lot of garlic, you'll stink!’ but don't let the amount put you off, as when garlic is roasted in its skin the pungent flavour is replaced by a jammy sweetness which is divine.Roast the garlic cloves in a preheated oven at 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4 for around half an hour until soft to the touch.
Meanwhile, take a large pot and slowly fry the white onion in 4 tablespoons of olive oil for about 10 minutes until really soft and translucent.
Add the cream and the stock, bring back to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes, awaiting your garlic.
Remove the garlic from the oven and allow to cool slightly before squeezing out all the sweet, golden paste.
Whisk this into the soup.
Discard the garlic skins.Remove the crusts from your ciabatta, rip up the bread into small pieces and throw into the soup.
Add the sherry vinegar, then allow the soup to simmer for 5 more minutes.
Whiz it until smooth in your food processor with your toasted almonds.
Season nicely to taste and serve in big bowls sprinkled with some orange segments, torn up coriander and mint, and drizzled with a good lug of extra virgin olive oil.Try this:
You can eat this cold in the summer – it's obviously going to be thick, which I think is a nice thing, but you can thin it with a little milk or stock if you want to.And this:
You may want to big up the sherry vinegar to give it that twang you get with a Spanish gazpacho soup.Or this:
There's a similar recipe from Spain where sliced white grapes are added to the soup – this contrasts really well with the garlic, so give it a go.
A handful will do.
Nice when eaten both hot and cold.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Blanch the cauliflower in salted boiling water for a couple of minutes then drain in a colander, allowing it to steam dry (you don't want any water left in your cauliflower or it won't roast properly).
Toss it in a good lug of olive oil and the butter.
In a pestle and mortar, bash your spices and chillies with a pinch of salt, then mix them with your almonds and put in a hot, dry ovenproof pan to slowly toast them.
After a couple of minutes, add the cauliflower.
When it gets a nice bit of colour on it, add the lemon zest and juice and mix around well.
Fry for about a minute longer then pop the pan into the preheated oven for about 15 minutes to crisp up.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
I like to serve 4 or 5 baby leeks per person, depending on their size.
Lightly trim both ends and peel back the first or second layer of leaves and discard.
Drop the leeks in a pan of boiling salted water for 2 to 3 minutes to soften - this is called blanching.
Drain them well (if there's too much water in them they won't roast properly) and toss in a bowl with a good lug of olive oil, a splash of red wine vinegar, the chopped thyme leaves and the garlic.
Arrange the leeks in one layer in a baking tray or earthenware dish and roast in the preheated oven for about 10 minutes until golden and almost caramelized.
Keep your eye on them - I've seen many chefs burn baby leeks when cooking them this way and it drives me mad!
Preheat your oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Bring two large pans of salted water to the boil.
Scrub the beets, then place in one of the pans - keep them separate to stop the rest of your veg turning red!
Parboil for 20 to 25 minutes.Meanwhile, peel the carrots and parsnips, then chop any bigger ones in half along with the turnips.
Trim and quarter the fennel.
Place the prepped veg together in the second pan and parboil for 10 minutes.
Drain all the veg and leave to steam dry, then separate them out so you can hit them with those different flavours.
Toss the beets with the balsamic vinegar and whole herb sprigs.
Toss the carrots with the clementine juice and throw in the squeezed halves, then pick over the rosemary leaves.
Toss the parsnips with the vinegar and tear over the sage leaves.
Reserve the honey for later.Toss the turnips with the vinegar and bay.
Toss the fennel with the lemon juice, then pick over the thyme leaves.
Lay them out on a large tray, keeping each veg type together.
If you're making this ahead, you can get up to this stage the day before, then cover them with tin foil and keep them with your spuds till your turkey is resting.
Nothing will discolour because of the oil and acid.Roast for 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until golden, crispy and beautiful.
About 5 minutes before the veg are ready, drizzle the honey over the parsnips.
Once ready, give the tray a jiggle, then pile the veg on a platter.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Peel and chop the potatoes into large chunks, roughly the size of a golf ball.Parboil the potatoes in a pan of boiling, salted water for 10 minutes, then drain in a colander, shaking it to chuff up the edges.Meanwhile, peel long strips of peel from the oranges using a speed-peeler, and pick the sage leaves.Place the goose fat or oil into a large roasting tray (you may need to use 2 trays) on the hob over a low heat, add the unpeeled garlic, orange peel and sage leaves, then fry for 30 seconds.
Add the spuds and toss together until well coated.Place the tray in the oven and cook for 45 minutes, or until golden and crisp.
If you’re going to use cooked carrots in a salad you’ve got to make it with some attitude!
This fantastic Moroccan-style salad combines roast carrots with avocados – and because they have the same texture in your mouth, I thought I’d add the chargrilled flavour and crunch of toasted ciabatta to round things off.
With spices, seeds, yoghurt and a delicious citrus dressing, you’ve got a winner.

Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Parboil your carrots in boiling, salted water for 10 minutes, until they are very nearly cooked, then drain and put them into a roasting tray.
You should flavour them while they’re steaming hot, so while the carrots are cooking get a pestle and mortar and smash up the cumin seeds, chillies, salt and pepper.
Add the garlic and thyme leaves and smash up again until you have a kind of paste.
The idea here is to build up the flavours.
Add enough extra virgin olive oil to generously cover the paste, and a good swig of vinegar.
This will be like a marinade, a rub and a dressing all in one!
Stir together, then pour over the carrots in the tray, coating them well.
Add the orange and lemon halves, cut-side down.
These will roast along with the carrots, and their juice can be used as the basis of the dressing.
Place in the preheated oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden.
 
While the carrots are roasting, halve and peel your avocados, discarding the stones, then cut them into wedges lengthways and place in a big bowl.
Remove the carrots from the oven and add them to the avocados.
Carefully, using some tongs, squeeze the roasted orange and lemon juice into a bowl and add the same amount of extra virgin olive oil and a little swig of red wine vinegar.
Season, and pour this dressing over the carrots and avocados.
Mix together, have a taste and correct the seasoning.
Call your gang round the table while you toast or griddle your ciabatta slices.
Tear the toasted bread into little pieces and add to the dressed carrot and avocado.
Mix together, toss in the salad leaves and cress and transfer to a big platter or divide between individual plates.
Spoon over a nice dollop of yoghurt, sprinkle over your toasted seeds and drizzle over some extra virgin olive oil.
Once you’ve peeled the celeriac, chuck away the skin and then carry on peeling around it, giving you long ribbons.
If they break every now and again it doesn’t matter.
Continue until you reach the fluffy tasteless inner core, which you should throw away.
Remove and discard the chunky stalks from the parsley, then finely slice the thinner stalks and roughly chop the leaves.Put your celeriac and parsley into a large bowl and mix together with all the other ingredients.
Season to taste, adding a little more vinegar if need be, then serve straight away.Try this:
Put some of this salad on a plate, then cover it completely with some smoked salmon and plenty of ground black pepper.Or this:
Roast a nice chicken.
Allow it to cool and serve with this salad.
The other day I had a nice little roast in the oven – comfort food for a great Sunday afternoon.
I had a bunch of raw beetroot to use up, so I thought it would be good to have something nice and zingy to munch on while I was waiting for the chicken to cook – like some tapas or antipasti to get my tastebuds going.
You can get some great beetroots these days – fantastic colours.I took the leaves off the beetroots and threw them away, as I didn't need them for this salad (although it's worth remembering that they're edible and that they taste nicer than Swiss chard or spinach!).
I washed the beetroots and then, using a speed peeler, I peeled them all down into really thin slices and flavoured them with salt, pepper, chopped flat-leaf parsley and a little grated fresh horseradish to give a nice bit of heat.
Then I left them for 5 to 10 minutes so that the acid from the horseradish would soften the beetroot.
The horseradish is optional, but it gives a good twang.This salad is lovely on a bit of toast, with maybe a splash of vodka or a little block of crumbled feta cheese.
Really nice to pick at before you have dinner.
Radicchio, like other bitter leaves such as Belgian endive, dandelions, cicoria and treviso, becomes extra special when its bitterness is balanced with other tastes – like the sweetness of balsamic vinegar, the saltiness of Parmesan, or the crunchy pepperiness of rocket.
Sometimes in life you have one particular thing which, on its own, is nothing, yet mix it up in the right combination and somehow it becomes genius – it’s like this with recipes, and especially this one.Get yourself a large bowl and, for each person, toss together a handful of rocket with a small handful of grated Parmesan cheese and a quarter of a radicchio, finely sliced.
Dress this with a lug of balsamic vinegar, three times as much extra virgin olive oil, and a little sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Mix carefully, grate over a little extra Parmesan, and eat straight away.
You can vary it by adding things like toasted pine nuts, roasted red onions or crispy bacon.
To make the guacamole I use 2 or 3 ripe avocados, 2 or 3 ripe deseeded tomatoes and a couple of deseeded red chillies, and I throw all this into a food processor with a handful of peeled and chopped spring onions and a good handful of fresh coriander.
Once this has been chopped up nice and fine, I add a couple more chopped tomatoes, a good pinch of salt and half of another avocado, chopped, to give it a nice chunky texture.
Transfer everything into a bowl and season carefully with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and a good squeeze of lemon or lime juice.
If you decide to buy ready-made guacamole, which is a bit lazy but probably very realistic, you can put it into a bowl and chirp it up a bit with a squeeze of lemon juice, a little extra salt and a bit of chilli to give it a kick.To fill the quesadillas you will need a couple of big handfuls of grated Cheddar and/or Red Leicester cheese, some finely sliced spring onions, a couple of handfuls of chopped fresh coriander, and a red pepper and some red or green chillies all deseeded and finely chopped.
Mix all this up in a bowl and then sprinkle half a handful between two layers of tortilla.
You can make up 4, 10 or even 20 quesadillas and keep them in the fridge until you need them if you want.Some people like to fry them in oil, but this makes them greasy and is not all that healthy.
You can grill them, but I like to put them in a dry non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, so that after about a minute and a half on each side you are left with a really crispy outside and an oozy, stringy filling.
Serve the quesadillas cut into quarters, with the guacamole, soured cream and a beer.PS You can also posh them up a bit using grilled chicken or seafood, leftover pork, shellfish, or a selection of grilled vegetables.
Make the dressing by mixing together the olive oil, lemon juice and crème fraîche or fromage frais.
Cook the potatoes in plenty of boiling salted water for around 20 minutes until tender, and drain well.
When the potatoes are cool enough to handle, rub off the skins with a knife and slice into bite-size pieces.
Mix with the dressing, then add the radishes and herbs and season well to taste.
As a child I always thought that a simple fruit option for dessert was flippin' boring and it never excited me in the slightest.
But I now realize it was because no one did anything remotely exciting with the fruit.
This recipe, however, I would definitely have enjoyed as a kid.
It's one of those combinations that just explodes in your mouth and you can't get enough of it.
Once you try it, you'll never forget it.Buy yourself a ripe pineapple.
It should smell slightly sweet and you should be able to remove the leaves quite easily.
Cut both ends off and peel the skin with a knife, removing any little black bits.
Then cut the pineapple into quarters and remove the slightly less tasty core, which I usually discard or suck on while preparing the rest of the dish.
Finely slice your quarters, lengthways, as thin as you can.
Lay out flat in one or two layers on a large plate.
Don't refrigerate this – just put it to one side.Take the plate to the table after dinner with a pot of yoghurt that can be passed round, then return with a pestle and mortar with the sugar in it.
Your family or guests will probably think you've gone mad, especially if you ignore them while you do this, but pick the mint leaves and add them to the sugar.
Bash the hell out of it in the pestle and mortar at the table.
You'll see the sugar change colour and it will smell fantastic.
It normally takes about a minute to do if you've got a good wrist action.
Sprinkle the mint sugar over the plate of pineapple – making sure you don't let anyone nick any pineapple before you sprinkle the sugar over.
What a fantastic thing.
If you have any leftovers, you could always make a piña colada with them.
In an appropriately sized pot, slowly fry the onion in the olive oil for about 5 minutes until translucent and soft but not coloured at all.
Get your bunch of thyme, tie it up with a little string and add to the pot with the celeriac, potatoes and stock.
Bring to the boil and simmer for 40 minutes until the vegetables are tender.
Add the cream, bring back to the boil, then remove the thyme and purée the mixture in a liquidizer or food processor.
Season carefully to taste, adding the truffle oil tablespoon by tablespoon – the oil can vary in strength depending on the brand.
Divide between your serving bowls.
Feel free to improvise by adding croûtons, a little extra cream or, if you're really lucky, some real black or white truffles shaved over the top.Try this:
If you want to give an edge to this comforting soup, try dressing some chopped parsley and celery leaves with a little olive oil and lemon juice.
Sprinkle over the soup at the last minute before serving.
Recipe for pizza dough and tomato sauce can be found here.Smear the tomato sauce evenly over the pizza base.
Scatter them over the pizza base and put small torn-up pieces of mozzarella into the gaps.
Cook until crisp and golden.
This might sound odd but it's totally delicious for breakfast or dessert.
Especially with a ball of vanilla ice-cream – great!
Recipe for pizza dough can be found here.In a bowl mix together the grapes, pine nuts, rosemary, sugar and white wine and allow to sit for a few minutes.
Then scatter, with the juice, all over the pizza base.
Crumble over little pieces of ricotta and drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil.
Cook until crisp and golden.
Peel the garlic, then pound in a pestle and mortar with a pinch of sea salt.Pick, roughly chop and add the basil leaves, then bash to a paste (or pulse in a food processor).Add the pine nuts (very lightly toast first, if you like) to the mixture and pound again, then stir in half the Parmesan.Drizzle in some oil – you need just enough to bind the sauce and get it to an oozy consistency.Add most of the remaining cheese, then season to perfection with salt and black pepper.
Have a taste, and keep adding a bit more cheese or oil until you are happy with the taste and consistency.
Add a squeeze of lemon juice at the end to give it a little twang, if you like, but it’s not essential.
Preheat the oven to 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5.
Peel the potatoes, cutting any larger ones so they’re all an even-size – twice the size of a squash ball is about right.
Wash the potatoes in cold water to get rid of any extra starch then tip into a large pot, cover with cold salted water and parboil for 7 minutes, then drain in a colander and leave to steam dry for 3 minutes.
Give the colander a bit of a shake to help chuff up the potatoes – this will help to make them super-crisp later on.
At this point, you need to decide which flavour combo to go with.
Tip the potatoes into a large tray in one layer, and add the fat – olive oil, butter or goose fat – then season really well with sea salt and black pepper.Toss the potatoes in the fat (you could get the potatoes up to this stage the day before, simply cover them with clingfilm or tin foil and pop in the fridge or in a cool place until needed), then roast for 30 minutes, or until lightly golden and three quarters cooked.
Now’s the time for my trick.
Gently squash each potato with a potato masher to increase the surface area – the more of your potato that’s in contact with the pan, the crispier it will be.
Add 1 good lug of oil to a small bowl and pick and/or tear in the herbs.
If opting for flavour combo 2, peel in a good few strips of clementine zest with a speed-peeler – you won’t eat these but they’ll add amazing flavour.
Break up the garlic bulb, adding the unpeeled cloves to the bowl, along with a splash of red wine vinegar, then scrunch and mix it up a bit.
Add your chosen flavour combo to the potatoes and give the pan a good shake, then pop back in the hot oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or until gnarly, crispy, bubbly and delicious.
Transfer to a plate lined with kitchen paper to drain off some of the excess fat, then tuck in!
The simplest way to cook spinach is in a pan with a little butter, a grating of nutmeg and a tiny squeeze of lemon juice with a lid on to let it steam.
This will taste great, and it goes with just about anything – pasta, fish or meat.
If there is any excess moisture when the spinach is cooked, just tilt the pan so it runs to the other side and pour it away.
Let the spinach sit for a minute and then serve.
Preheat oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Throw the tomatoes into a large roasting tin, drizzle them with olive oil, season with some salt and pepper and pop them in the preheated oven for 20 minutes.
Once they’re roasted, squash the tomatoes with a fork to get the juices going and drizzle over some balsamic vinegar.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil and cook the pasta according to the pack instructions until al dente.
Drain the pasta and add the roasted tomato sauce and the olives.
Tear over most of the basil leaves and toss everything together.
Season and serve with the reserved basil leaves scattered over and some freshly grated pecorino.
Deseed and slice the peppers and put them in a large frying pan over a medium heat with a little olive oil and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Place a lid on, and cook slowly for 15 minutes until softened.
Don't rush this too much, as cooking the peppers slowly like this really helps to bring out the flavour.
While the peppers are cooking, peel and finely slice the onion, and peel and grate the garlic.
Finely chop the parsley leaves and reserve the stalks.Add the onion to the pan and cook for a further 20 minutes.
Then add the garlic and parsley stalks and toss around, keeping everything moving in the pan.
Cook for about 3 minutes most.
Have a little taste, and season with a bit more salt and pepper.
Add the vinegar – it will sizzle away, so give everything a good toss.
Grate the Parmesan and add one handful of the Parmesan and the mascarpone or crème fraîche, if using, and turn the heat down to minimum while you cook the pasta.Meanwhile, put a large pot of salted water on to boil.
Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook according to the packet instructions.
When cooked, drain in a colander, reserving some of the cooking water.
Put the peppers, pasta and parsley leaves into a large warmed bowl.
Give them a good toss together, then add a little of the pasta cooking water and a few good lugs of extra virgin olive oil to coat the pasta nicely.
Serve straight away sprinkled with the rest of the Parmesan.
Get a high-sided pan or wok on a medium-high heat to get nice and hot, and pour your stock into a small pan on a low heat to get warm.
To make your fragrant soup base, add the lime leaves, chillies, garlic, ginger, lemongrass and a pinch of salt to a food processor.
Chop the top few leaves off your bunch of coriander and pop to one side, then add the rest to the processor and blitz for 30 seconds or so until fairly fine.
With the processor still running, add a few good lugs of olive oil, the five-spice and ground cumin.
Tip this mixture straight into your hot pan, you can add a splash of stock to loosen it if you want, and fry and stir for a couple of minutes so it starts smelling fantastic.
Add your sliced onion, then cook gently for 8 to 10 minutes.Add the squash to the pan and stir well, then pour in the stock.
Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes until the squash is lovely and soft.
At this point, add the rice and give it a really good stir.
If it looks a bit dry, you can add a splash of water here.
Continue to simmer for about 8 minutes until the rice is almost cooked, then add the coconut milk and bring back to the boil.
Simmer for a couple of minutes until hot through and thickened a little.
I like to squash up some of the squash at this point too.
Take the pan off the heat, give it a good stir, then taste and season carefully with salt and pepper.
To give it a bit of twang add the lime juice – the amount you need will depend on how juicy your limes are, so keep tasting it as you go.
Scatter with more sliced fresh chilli and your reserved coriander leaves before serving.
 You can then use this as a receptacle for your hot soup, and as long as it’s an inch or so thick, it should keep warm for a good hour or so.
Have it sitting out at the party with a load of little cups and bowls lined up next to it and a bunch of lime wedges, and let everyone help themselves!
Add your fresh or dried and soaked beans to a pan of water with the bay leaf – this will help to flavour the beans and soften their skins.
Squash the tomato, peel the potato and add both to the pan.
Cook until the beans are tender – taste one to check they’re nice and soft.
Dried beans can take up to an hour, but check fresh ones after 25 minutes.
Drain (reserving about half a glass of the cooking water), and discard the bay leaf, tomato and potato.Peel and finely chop your onions, carrots and garlic.
Trim and finely chop the celery.
Heat a saucepan with a splash of olive oil and add the vegetables to the pan with the ground fennel seeds and chilli.
Sweat very slowly on a low heat with the lid just ajar for around 15 to 20 minutes until soft, but not brown.
Add the tomatoes and bring to a gentle simmer for a few minutes.Add the cooked and drained beans with a little of the water they were cooked in, and bring back to the boil.
Finely slice the cavolo nero (stalks and all) and add to the pan – it will look like loads, but don’t worry as it will cook down.Tear the bread into chunks, then moisten with a little of the cooking water and stir it in too.
The soup should be thick but not dry, so add a little more cooking water if you need to loosen it.
Continue cooking for about 30 minutes – you want to achieve a silky, thick soup.Season the ribollita with sea salt and black pepper, and stir in 4 good lugs of good-quality Tuscan extra virgin olive oil before serving to give it a glossy velvety texture.
Delicious served on a cold winter’s day with lots and lots of Chianti!
First of all pod your beans.
When I’m doing mine I round up friends and family to get the job done quicker.
I also put the larger ones in one bowl and the smaller ones in another – they’ll need different cooking times.
Blanch the beans in unsalted boiling water for a couple of minutes, giving the large ones a bit longer (don’t add salt, as this will toughen the skins).
Drain them and lay them flat on a tray to cool down slightly.
This salad always works best when the beans are eaten slightly warm.
If you’re making it in advance, though, you could always give them a quick flash in the microwave just before serving.
Remove the skins from the larger beans if necessary.
Place in a bowl and dress with the juice of 1 lemon and three times as much extra virgin olive oil.
Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
Add a little more lemon juice if needed – feel free to adjust to your taste.
At this stage I like to finely slice half the mint and add it to the beans while they sit and marinate for a little while.In a shallow pan, on a medium heat, fry the chopped onion, cumin seeds and chilli in a little olive oil.
Stir and cook until softened.
As the onions start to colour, add your breadcrumbs and mix these really well into the onions.
Continue to cook until the crumbs are crispy and golden, then season them to taste and put to one side.
To serve, divide the yoghurt or soured cream between four plates or bowls.
Give the broad beans a final toss, add the rest of the mint leaves, and divide between the plates on top of the yoghurt.
Finally, sprinkle over the warm spiced crunchy bits.Sometimes I like to zest a bit of lemon over the top to give a little edge.
Fantastic served with grilled chicken or as a tapas or antipasti style thing.
Also great with flatbreads like pitta.
First of all, finely slice your carrots into matchstick-sized batons.
Finely slice your radishes – you can leave a little of the tops on if you like.
Quarter your apples, remove the cores and finely slice.
Add all these to a bowl with the rest of the ingredients, apart from the sesame seeds.
Toss together, carefully checking the seasoning, and serve with the sesame seeds sprinkled over the top.
Eat straight away.Try this:
Turn it into a warm salad by adding some pan-seared chicken, prawns or scallops which have been dusted with a little paprika.And this:
Make it more of a snack by frying some halloumi cheese until golden with some chopped fresh chilli and crumbling this over the top.Or this:
Grill some pitta bread and serve stuffed with the Crunch Salad.
Crumble in some feta cheese too.
Lovely.
Add the peas to a cold pan.
Put the small bunch of mint on top of the peas, then boil the kettle.
Pour just enough boiling water over the peas and mint to cover them, then put the pan on a high heat with a lid on.
Bring back to the boil and cook until the peas are just perfect and tender – this should only be a couple of minutes.
Immediately drain in a colander, then place the peas and mint into a salad-type bowl.
Sprinkle with a little sea salt and freshly ground black pepper and a good squeeze of lemon juice or a swig of good-quality red or white wine vinegar.
Cover the peas and mint with the olive oil (it’s important to use the best you can get, as the better the quality, the better the dish) and mix around.
Put to one side for half an hour, after which the flavours will really have started to develop.There are so many things you can serve these peas with:
from grilled fish to bruschetta or crostini, roasted or grilled lamb cutlets or pork, or served next to a hearty roast chicken.
It’s always exciting to see lovely green peas under golden green oil.
This simple little salad can be quite extraordinary, but you’ve got to season it with that Mexican spirit by being brave with the lime juice, salt and chilli, until it’s singing in your mouth.
It does a great job of waking up the other things it’s served with – a few spoonfuls of this next to a grilled chicken breast or pork chop would be an absolute celebration.Veg-wise, the onion, coriander and white cabbage are non-negotiable, as they form the base of this salad, but feel free to have a play with the other ingredients and use things like fennel or asparagus.
Basically whatever’s in season and available should be a nice addition.The easiest and quickest way to make this is to use a food processor with a slicer attachment or a mandolin.
If you don’t have either of those, use a speed peeler, or simply grate everything finely.Shred your white and red cabbage into two separate piles.
Put just the white cabbage into a large bowl with the radishes, carrots and most of the coriander.
Mix everything together really well, then kick up the flavours by adding almost all the chopped chilli, the sliced red onion and a good few lugs of extra virgin olive oil.
Add most of the lime juice and a good pinch of sea salt, then toss together and have a taste.
Just keep adjusting everything, adding more fragrance with the coriander, heat with the last of the chilli and acid with another squeeze of lime juice, until it’s just right for you.When you’re happy, fold in the red cabbage right before serving so it doesn’t stain everything, and tuck in.
Use a pestle and mortar to crush the coriander seeds, but don’t let them get too fine.
Peel off long thick strips of lemon zest and place in a bowl with the olives.
Squeeze the lemon then top with 3 times as much extra virgin olive oil.
Add salt, pepper and the crushed coriander seeds.
Pour the dressing over the olives and leave to marinate.
The longer you leave them, the better they’ll taste.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.Cook the macaroni in a pan of salted boiling water 2 minutes short of the timing on the packet instructions, then drain in a colander and reserve a little of the cooking water.Heat the oil in a large heavy-based frying pan, add the marjoram or oregano and fry for a minute until it starts to crisp up, then turn off the heat.Add your cooked pasta to the marjoram or oregano butter, along with a couple of spoonfuls of the reserved cooking water and the Parmesan, fontina or Taleggio and mascarpone.
Return to a medium heat and toss and stir around until most of the cheese has melted and you have a lovely gooey sauce – you may need to add a little more of the reserved cooking water.Season to taste with sea salt and black pepper, then tip it all into an earthenware dish.
Grate over a quarter of the nutmeg, tear over the mozzarella and sprinkle over the extra Parmesan.Bake the macaroni cheese in the preheated oven for about 10 minutes, finishing up with a quick whack under the grill, until golden brown and crispy on top.
I've always wanted to know how Indian and Thai chefs make tasty rice.
This is a great way to liven up plain rice but feel free to take it a step further by adding turmeric, like my Indian friend Das.
Or hot it up with a little chilli powder.
You can also fry some broken nuts, scramble in some eggs, try any ideas or flavours that you think are apt.
Throw the rice into boiling water, cook for 10 minutes and drain.
Heat the oil in a small frying pan, over a medium heat.
Add the mustard seeds and as they begin to pop add the urad dhal, curry leaves and strips of lemon rind (remove these with a vegetable peeler).
Leave to cook for 1 minute until the urad dhal and lemon peel are lightly coloured.
Add the drained steaming rice to a bowl and pour over the cooked spices, lemon juice and chopped coriander.
Season to taste.
Serve with a good curry.
Cook the linguine in a pan of boiling salted water according to the packet instructions, then drain and return to the pan.Meanwhile, finely grate the zest from 1 lemon into a bowl, then squeeze in the juice from all three.
Drizzle in 6 tablespoons of oil, and finely grate in the Parmesan, then beat together – it’ll go thick and creamy.
Season to taste with sea salt and black pepper, and extra lemon juice, if needed.
Pick and finely chop the basil leaves.Add the lemony sauce to the linguine and shake the pan to coat each strand of pasta (the Parmesan will melt when mixed with the pasta).
Finish by stirring through the chopped basil and rocket.
Combine the bread flour, 00 flour, water, yeast and 15g salt in a mixing bowl and knead gently until smooth.
This should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.
Cover the mixing bowl with a tea towel and leave to rest, in a warm place, for 45 minutes or until the dough has doubled in size.
This allows the bread to become lighter and softer in texture.
While the dough is rising, prepare a baking tray by lightly oiling the base and sides using vegetable oil.
Now’s a good time to make sure your wood fire oven is pre-lit and ready for your bread.Transfer the dough to the baking tray.
Spread out evenly using the palm of your hands and gently expel the gas from the dough (you’ll notice that the dough is airy).
Drizzle some extra virgin olive oil over the surface of the dough using your fingertips; 'dimple' the dough ensuring that you don’t press all the way through to the base.
Cover with the tea towel and leave to rest in a warm place for a further 20 to 40 minutes, or until the dough has doubled in size.Place the baking tray in the wood-fired oven for 15 minutes or until lightly golden; this will vary depending on temperature so it's best to keep a close eye on the bread for your first attempt.
Just prior to the bread coming out of the wood-fired oven, mix together 2 tablespoons of olive oil and 1 tablespoon of water.
Whisk lightly until it becomes an opaque emulsion.
Once removed, brush the bread with the emulsion (I use a pastry brush), which makes the bread surface moist.
To finish, stud the bread with fresh sprigs of rosemary and sprinkle with a pinch of sea salt.
Serve warm with a small bowl of extra virgin olive oil and balsamic vinegar.
 This dish can be eaten either cold as an antipasto or warm as a vegetable contorno.
The great thing about it is that you can use any combination of greens, such as baby cabbage leaves, Swiss chard and even salad leaves like cos, gem or Romaine.
You can easily buy a big bag of spinach, rocket and watercress and use some yellow celery leaves and other herbs like basil, parsley, sorrel and fennel tops to give you a good mixture.
Most Italians have a vegetable garden, and no matter how big or small it is they always have greens and veggies to hand.
This recipe sees the more robust leaves blanched first, then wilted down in a pan with the salad leaves, herbs and garlic until soft and tender.Blanch the cabbage leaves and chard to perfection in a pot of salted boiling water for a couple of minutes, then drain in a colander and leave to cool down a little.
Put a couple of good lugs of olive oil into a large frying pan or casserole type dish and add the sliced garlic.
As soon as it starts to take on the smallest amount of colour, throw in your salad leaves then the cabbage and Swiss chard.
Cook on a medium heat for about 4 to 5 minutes, moving the greens around the pan with a spoon or a pair of tongs, then add your herbs and cook for a further minute.
Remove from the heat and season carefully to taste with salt and pepper, some good-quality extra virgin olive oil and enough lemon juice to give it a little kick.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Soak the farro or bulgar wheat in cold water for 20 minutes, then drain.Meanwhile, slice the courgettes crossways into chunky crescents and put into a large roasting tray.
Add the remaining vegetables and garlic cloves and toss together with a good splash of olive oil.
Season well.Spread the vegetables out in one layer if you can, as they’ll roast better this way – use 2 trays if you have to.
Roast in the oven for 30 to 40 minutes, removing the trays from the oven and carefully shaking them every now and then, until the vegetables are cooked through and crisp around the edges.
Sprinkle the vinegar over the vegetables as soon as they come out of the oven and set aside to cool.
When cool, tip on to a large chopping board, add the fresh herbs and chop it all finely.Place the farro or bulgar wheat in a large saucepan, cover with fresh cold water and bring to the boil.
Simmer for 20 minutes or until tender, then drain well.
Dress the farro or bulgar wheat with a good splash of olive oil and a squeeze of lemon juice, season with salt and pepper and toss with the chopped vegetables.
Scatter the reserved fennel tops over the mix and serve.
Cut the aubergine into large chunks.
Peel and finely chop the onion, then peel and finely slice the garlic.
Pick and chop the parsley leaves and finely chop the stalks.Rinse, soak and drain the capers and remove the olive stones.
Roughly chop the tomatoes.
Toast the almonds, if using, under a hot grill or in an oven until light brown.Get yourself a large pan, pour in a couple of lugs of olive oil, and place on the heat.
Add your aubergine chunks and oregano, season with a little sea salt and toss around so the aubergine is evenly coated by the oil.
Cook on a high heat for around 4 or 5 minutes, giving the pan a shake every now and then.
(Depending on the size of your pan you may need to cook the aubergine in batches.)
When the aubergines are nice and golden on each side, add the onion, garlic and parsley stalks, and continue cooking for another couple of minutes.
Feel free to add a little more oil to the pan if you feel it's getting too dry.
Throw in the drained capers and the olives, and drizzle over the herb vinegar.
When all the vinegar has evaporated, add the tomatoes and simmer for around 15 minutes or until tender.
Taste before serving and season if you need to with salt, black pepper and a little more vinegar.
Drizzle with some good olive oil and serve sprinkled with the chopped parsley leaves and the almonds if you like.
Hush puppies are little savoury doughnuts and I think they’re quite cool.
I was told their name comes from the time of the Great Depression, when loads of people were going hungry.
When they did get a bit of food, their hungry dogs would hang around whining, so they’d throw these little buns to them to keep them quiet.
That might be an old wives’ tale, but if it is, I don’t care because I like the story.
OK, they’re not the healthiest things on the planet, but every now and then .
.
.
they’re not going to hurt you.Put the cornmeal and flour into a bowl, add your beer, and leave to sit for a few minutes.
Add the corn, sliced spring onions, grated cheese and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper and use a fork or a spoon to mix it up really well.
Once your batter is ready, pour your vegetable oil into a large sturdy pan and put it on a high heat.
Please make sure you don’t move the pan about and that no one is running around the kitchen while you’re doing this, as hot oil can burn quite badly.You want the oil to reach about 180ºC, so if you don’t have a thermometer get a small piece of potato and drop it into the pan.
When it turns crisp and golden and rises to the top, the oil is ready to go.
Get a tablespoonful of mix and carefully drop it into the hot oil.
In Georgia they roll their batter into round balls, but I say just let it drop off the spoon:
a bit scruffy and rustic feels right to me.
You’ll need to cook them in batches.Keep your eye on them and let them fry for about 3 to 4 minutes, then remove with a slotted spoon and drain on a plate lined with kitchen paper.
Sprinkle over a tiny bit of sea salt and a hit of paprika to finish them off, and serve right away, either on their own or as they do at roadside restaurants, as part of a meal with the amazing pork and slaw.
Naughty but nice!
Drain your soaked beans, then give them a good wash.
Place them in a deep pot and cover them with cold water.
Throw in your garlic, herb sprigs, bay leaves, celery stick, potato and tomatoes.Place the beans on the heat and slowly bring to the boil.
Cover with a lid and simmer very gently for 45 minutes to an hour, depending on whether you’re using fresh or dried, until soft and cooked nicely.
Skim if necessary, topping up with boiling water from the kettle if you need to.When the beans are cooked, drain them in a colander, reserving enough of the cooking water to cover them halfway up when put back in the pot.
Remove the garlic, herbs, celery, potato and tomatoes from the beans.
Squeeze the garlic cloves out of their skins and pinch the skin off the tomatoes.
Put the garlic, tomatoes and potato on to a plate, mash them with a fork and stir back into the beans.
Season well with salt and pepper, and pour in three generous lugs of extra virgin olive oil and a few splashes of vinegar.
Stir in the parsley and serve on some toasted sourdough bread.
Mix everything together in a bowl and season to taste.
Place all the vegetables in a large heavy-bottomed saucepan with a big splash of olive oil and the ginger, garlic, chilli, basil stalks, coriander seeds and cloves.
Season with a teaspoon of black pepper and a good pinch of sea salt.
Cook gently over a low heat for 10 to 15 minutes, or until softened, stirring every so often.
Add all the tomatoes and 350 millimetres of cold water.
Bring to the boil and simmer gently until the sauce reduces by half.
Add the basil leaves, then whiz the sauce in a food processor or with a hand blender and push it through a sieve twice, to make it smooth and shiny.
Put the sauce into a clean pan and add the vinegar and the sugar.Place the sauce on the heat and simmer until it reduces and thickens to the consistency of tomato ketchup.
At this point, correct the seasoning to taste.
Spoon the ketchup through a sterilized funnel into sterilized bottles, then seal tightly and place in a cool dark place or the fridge until needed – it should keep for six months.
Great served with steak and chips.
Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Chop the marjoram leaves, or pound them in a pestle and mortar.
Put them in a bowl with a tablespoon of olive oil and a pinch of pepper.
Rub this mixture all over the goats' cheese and bake in the preheated oven for around 10 to 15 minutes until nice and golden.
Toss the rocket, fennel, olives and lemon basil together in a bowl.
Dress your salad with around 6 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and just over half your lemon juice, and season.
Divide over four plates and sprinkle over the crumbled goat’s cheese and sliced chilli ...
fantastic!
A mushroom risotto can be taken in many different ways, depending on what kind of mushrooms you have and whether they are introduced at the very beginning of cooking or just added at the end, as I’m going to do here.
The inspiration for this recipe came when I was in Japan and saw mushrooms being cooked completely dry on a barbecue or griddle pan.
This way of cooking brings out a really fresh and nutty flavour in them; perfect for being dressed lightly with olive oil, salt and lemon juice or stirred into a risotto at the last minute before serving.Heat your stock in a saucepan and keep it on a low simmer.
Place the porcini mushrooms in a bowl and pour in just enough hot stock to cover.
Leave for a couple of minutes until they’ve softened.
Fish them out of the stock and chop them, reserving the soaking liquid.In a large pan, heat a lug of olive oil and add the onion and celery.
Slowly fry without colouring them for at least 10 minutes, then turn the heat up and add the rice.
Give it a stir.
Stir in the vermouth or wine – it’ll smell fantastic!
Keep stirring until the liquid has cooked into the rice.
Now pour the porcini soaking liquid through a sieve into the pan and add the chopped porcini, a good pinch of salt and your first ladle of hot stock.
Turn the heat down to a simmer and keep adding ladlefuls of stock, stirring and massaging the starch out of the rice, allowing each ladleful to be absorbed before adding the next.Carry on adding stock until the rice is soft but with a slight bite.
This will take about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, get a dry griddle pan hot and grill the wild mushrooms until soft.
If your pan isn’t big enough, do this in batches.
Put them into a bowl and add the chopped herbs, a pinch of salt and the lemon juice.
Using your hands, get stuck in and toss everything together – this is going to be incredible!Take the risotto off the heat and check the seasoning carefully.
Stir in the butter and the Parmesan.
You want it to be creamy and oozy in texture, so add a bit more stock if you think it needs it.
Put a lid on and leave the risotto to relax for about 3 minutes.Take your risotto and add a little more seasoning or Parmesan if you like.
Serve a good dollop of risotto topped with some grilled dressed mushrooms, a sprinkling of freshly grated Parmesan and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Follow my basic bread recipe through steps 1 to 4.
After the dough has doubled in size, you need to knock the air out of it by bashing it around for a minute.
Now it’s ready to be transformed into pizzas or flatbreads.
Tear off chunks of the dough and roll out your bread, shaping into slightly irregular oval shape rounds, about 0.5 centimetres thick.Oil the grill on the barbie, then lay the flatbreads on top of the grill and cook them for about 3 minutes.
Turn them over and cook for another 3 minutes until they are golden brown, crispy and slightly charred – this’ll give them a real barbecued flavour.Take the flatbreads off the barbie.
Mix a couple of lugs of olive oil with the rosemary leaves and brush (or drizzle) over the hot breads.
Sprinkle with salt and serve straight away while still warm.
Wash whichever kind of asparagus you’re using, with their woody ends snipped off.Heat a large griddle pan and dry-griddle the asparagus spears on both sides until nicely marked.
As soon as they're ready, put them on to four plates and dress with a good squeeze of lemon juice and three times as much olive oil.Season with sea salt and black pepper to taste, then take a block of Parmesan to the table and either grate or shave some over the asparagus with a speed peeler.
I think it’s quite nice to have different shapes and sizes in a salad, so cut your medium tomato into wedges, halve the cherry tomatoes and slice the beef tomato into large rounds.
Put all the tomatoes into a large salad bowl.
Slice the onion very finely so it’s wafer thin and add to the tomatoes.
Scratch a fork down the sides of the cucumber so it leaves deep grooves in the skin, then cut it into thick slices.
Deseed your pepper, slice it into rings and add them to the salad along with the cucumber.Roughly chop the dill and most of the mint leaves, reserving the smaller ones for garnish.
Add the chopped herbs to the bowl of salad, then squeeze your handful of olives over so they season the vegetables, then drop them in.Add a pinch of sea salt, the vinegar and the extra virgin olive oil.
Quickly toss everything together with your hands.
The minute all those flavours start working with the veg is when the magic starts to happen.
Have a taste, and adjust the flavours if need be.To serve, pop the block of feta right on the top of the salad.
Sprinkle the oregano over the top along with the reserved mint leaves, drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and take it straight to the table.
It’s confident and scruffy with a bit of attitude.
Delicious.PS I’ve been known to pop leftover Greek salad into a liquidizer with a splash of extra virgin olive oil and a few ice cubes, then blitz it up to a smooth consistency so it's basically a Greek gazpacho.
It’s not a classic thing to do, but it is very delicious, not to mention a great way of using up leftovers!
Gordita means ‘little fat girl’ in Spanish and is meant as a sort of cute, cuddly term of endearment.
It’s also the name for these sweet little puffy tortillas, which are often made around Easter and other special occasions.
Look at the gorditas as a tasty spoon for carrying all kinds of big exciting flavours.
Mexicans put all sorts of things, from beans, to meat, to salsa, on them.
I’ve gone for quite a delicious and delicate apple salsa here – give it a try.Put the cornmeal and salt into a large bowl and make a well in the centre.
Mix the baking powder into the hot water and pour this into the well.
Using a fork, mix the cornmeal into the liquid, and when it starts to come together use your hands to knead it.
Divide the dough into 16 equal squash-ball-sized pieces and dust them lightly with flour.
Roll each piece around in your hands, then pat and flatten into a small round roughly the size of the base of a wine glass.
Put these on an oiled tray, dust with flour and put aside while you make your salsa.
Finely chop your apple, tomatoes and spring onions, and finely slice your chilli.
Put them all into a bowl.
Pick the leaves from your coriander and put them into a bowl of water until you’re ready to serve.
Chop the coriander stalks up nice and finely and add to the bowl with the other salsa ingredients.
 Put a large pan on a medium heat and add your pumpkin and sunflower seeds.
Toss them around for a few minutes and toast them.
Add them to your salsa with the juice of your lime, a good lug of olive oil and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Mix well, then have a taste and add a little more seasoning, lime juice or chilli if you think it needs more attitude.
Put the pan back on a medium heat and add a couple of good lugs of olive oil.
Cook as many gorditas as will comfortably fit into the pan for about 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until they’re golden and puff up a little.Serve the gorditas warm out of the pan with a tablespoon of your beautiful salsa, a little hunk of cheese, a couple of your drained coriander leaves and a few slices of chilli, if you fancy, and with lime wedges on the side for squeezing over.
Bring a pan of water to a fast boil, add your beans, put a lid on the pan, and cook for at least 4 to 5 minutes.
Boiling the beans fast like this helps them to retain all their nutrients.
Meanwhile, put the mustard and vinegar into a jam jar or bowl and, while stirring, add the olive oil to make a good hot French dressing.
Season carefully with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, then add the finely chopped shallot, the capers if you're using them and the garlic.Remove one of the beans from the pan to check if it's cooked.
If it holds its shape but is also soft to the bite, it's perfect.
Drain in a colander.
Now, while the beans are steaming hot, this is the perfect moment to dress them – a hot bean will take on more of the wonderful dressing than a cold one.
It is best to serve the beans warm, not cold, and certainly not at fridge temperature because the flavours will be muted and boring.
Serve the beans in a bowl, sprinkled with chervil if you like – it's a delicate, crunchy herb that goes well with beans.
Serve as a salad in its own right, or as an accompaniment to a main meal.
When I took my students to Italy to see how olive oil was made, we ate these ‘fried’ pizzas at a great little restaurant called Il Vescovino in Panzano in the Chianti region.
The chef fried the thin bases in oil, like poppadoms, then quickly topped them with tomato sauce, mozzarella and a little bit of oregano and popped them straight under a hot grill.
They were the lightest pizzas I've ever eaten – just incredible – and this is how the first ever pizzas were made.

First, make your basic pizza dough.
Now make your tomato sauce.
Heat a saucepan, add a splash of oil and the sliced garlic and cook gently.
When the garlic has turned light golden, add half the basil, the tomatoes and a few pinches of salt and pepper.
Cook gently for about 20 minutes, mashing the tomatoes until smooth, then taste, season again and put to one side.Preheat your grill to its highest temperature.
Divide the dough into 10 pieces and press them flat on to a floured work surface.
Heat a frying pan over a high heat, add about 2 centimetres of vegetable oil and fry each pizza for 30 seconds or so on each side.
Remove with tongs and place on a baking tray.Once all the bases are fried, smear each one with a spoonful of the tomato sauce and tear over some mozzarella and a leaf or two of basil or dried oregano.
Drizzle with olive oil and grill until the cheese is bubbling and the dough is light brown and cooked through.
Preheat your barbecue.
Beat the crème fraîche with the seeds from the vanilla pod and put to one side.Cut the ends off the pineapple.
Sit it on a board and cut off the skin in wide strips from top to bottom, making sure you cut out any woody eyes.
Thinly slice the pineapple, and dust the slices with icing sugar.Make sure the bars of the barbecue are clean – especially if you’ve been cooking fish or meat beforehand – and drop the slices of pineapple on to it.
Grill for about 30 seconds on each side then lift off with the tongs and transfer to a serving plate.Serve scattered with mint and a generous dollop of vanilla-flavoured crème fraîche.
Lay your figs, cut-side up, in a baking tray.
Using a fine grater, zest your clementines over the figs then dust the figs with a sprinkling of cinnamon and a teaspoon of sugar.
Pop the figs in the oven to bake for 4 hours, checking on them every hour or so.
When they come out of the oven you’ll have semi-dehydrated figs, which will be a bit like wine gums.
A really nice way of using them at Christmas is to turn them into a bit of a gift by popping a stack of them in a sterilised jar, covering them completely with honey then sealing the jar with an airtight lid.
They’ll be beautiful as part of a cheese platter, baked in a tart, a sticky toffee pud, or even thrown into a roasting tray with some pork or other meat for a bit of added sweetness.
Give them to your mates when you go round to theirs for dinner.
They’ll love getting something unique, especially when you explain all the different things they can do with them.
To me, fennel is a really tasty, classy and under-used vegetable.
It works really well with the ricotta in this recipe and has a fantastic sweetness.
Please don’t buy the crappy ricotta that a lot of the supermarkets have – make sure it’s light and crumbly and, if you’re out of luck, a fresh goat’s cheese is pretty damn good too.Put your fennel seeds into a pestle and mortar and bash up to a powder.
Get a wide, hot saucepan, add a couple of splashes of olive oil and fry the garlic until softened, then add the bashed fennel seeds and sliced fennel.
Add a pinch of salt and pepper and turn down to a medium-low heat.
Place a lid on the pan and cook nice and slowly for around 20 minutes, until the fennel’s soft and sweet.Start the risotto bianco as usual and continue through the recipe until the rice is half cooked.
Half-way through Stage 3, stir in the sautéd fennel, then keep cooking the risotto until the rice is perfectly cooked.Bash up the dried chillies in the pestle and mortar until you have a fine powder.
At Stage 4, when you add the butter and Parmesan, add the crumbled ricotta and lemon zest.
Check the seasoning carefully and balance the flavour with as much lemon juice as you feel it needs to work with the fennel.
Divide between your plates, sprinkle over your fennel tops and dust with the ground chilli.
Grate over some fresh Parmesan at the table.
For the dressing, pound together or finely chop the garlic and anchovies.
Mix in the yoghurt, then the zest and juice of the lemon, and season to taste with freshly ground black pepper.
Simple!Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Tear the bread into rough pieces of about an inch or so and scatter into a roasting tin.
Drizzle the bread with a little olive oil then toss with a good pinch of sea salt and bake for 10 minutes or until crunchy.Trim the bottoms of the little gems then break up each one, keeping the leaves whole.
Give the watercress and lettuce leaves a quick wash, then dry in a salad spinner and lay on a large serving plate.
Cut the top off the fennel and hang on to the feathery parts.
Trim the bottom of the bulb and discard the scruffy outer leaves.
Cut the bulb in half and slice as thinly as possible from the root to the tip, then add to the rest of the leaves.
Next, fry the slices of halloumi on both sides in a little olive oil until golden, then drain on kitchen paper.
Add the halloumi and croutons to the serving plate.
Season, give the whole lot a gentle toss, then drizzle over the yoghurt dressing.
Chop the fennel tops and bash the pomegranate to get the seeds out, then scatter the fennel and seeds over the salad.
Farro is a grain similar to pearl barley, but it’s dried in such a way that instead of being fluffy and spongy it becomes chewy and nutty.
You may have difficulty getting hold of it, but if you can find it you’ll be using it all the time – it has an unusual flavour half-way between rice and couscous (this recipe will also work well with both of these).
In Italy it was a major food for the ancient Romans, who used it to make bread, porridge and soup before they got hold of wheat.
Nowadays it’s used in salads, soups, stews, even pastas.
You should be able to buy farro in good Italian delis, and supermarkets have started to stock it in the special selection aisles.
Here’s a recipe for one of my fave salads – give it a go.Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Soak the farro or bulgar wheat in cold water for 20 minutes, then drain.
Slice the courgettes across into chunky half-moons and put them into a large roasting tray.
Add the remaining vegetables and the garlic cloves and toss together with a good splash of olive oil.
Season with pepper and a tiny pinch of salt.
Try to spread the vegetables out in one layer, as they’ll roast better this way (use 2 trays if you have to).
Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 40 minutes, removing the trays and carefully shaking them now and then, until the vegetables are cooked through and crisp around the edges.
Sprinkle a little vinegar over the vegetables as soon as they come out of the oven and set aside to cool.
When cool, tip on to a large chopping board, add the fresh herbs and chop finely.Place the farro or bulgar wheat in a large saucepan, cover with fresh cold water and bring to the boil.
Simmer for 20 minutes, or until tender, and drain well.
Dress with olive oil and the lemon juice, season with salt and pepper, and toss with the roasted herby vegetables.
Scatter over the reserved fennel tops and serve.
Peel and crush the garlic, peel and slice the onions and shallots.
Trim, wash and slice the leeks.Put the butter, 2 lugs of olive oil, the sage leaves (reserving 8 for later) and the crushed garlic into a thick-bottomed, non-stick pan.
Stir everything round and add the onions, shallots and leeks.
Season with sea salt and black pepper.Place a lid on the pan, leaving it slightly ajar, and cook slowly for 50 minutes, without colouring the vegetables too much.
Remove the lid for the last 20 minutes – your onions will become soft and golden.
Stir occasionally so that nothing catches on the bottom.
Having the patience to cook the onions slowly, slowly, gives you an incredible sweetness and an awesome flavour, so don’t be tempted to speed this bit up.When your onions and leeks are lovely and silky, add the stock.
Bring to the boil, turn the heat down and simmer for 10 to 15 minutes.
You can skim any fat off the surface if you like, but I prefer to leave it because it adds good flavour.Preheat the oven or grill to maximum.Toast your bread on both sides.
Correct the seasoning of the soup.
When it’s perfect, ladle it into individual heatproof serving bowls and place them on a baking tray.Tear toasted bread over each bowl to fit it like a lid.
Feel free to push and dunk the bread into the soup a bit.
Grate over some of the Cheddar and drizzle over a little Worcestershire sauce.Dress your reserved sage leaves with some olive oil and place one on top of each slice of bread.
Put the baking tray into the preheated oven or under the grill to melt the cheese until bubbling and golden.
Keep an eye on it and make sure it doesn’t burn!
When the cheese is bubbling, very carefully lift out the tray and carry it to the table.
Enjoy.
Whether you are using fresh or frozen peas, for 4 people you need to put 4 good handfuls of peas into a wide frying pan or casserole-type pan which has a lid (or you can use tinfoil), with ½ a wineglass of white wine, ½ a wineglass of water and 2 good knobs of butter.
Place the lid on top and bring to the boil, then remove the lid and simmer for a minute or two while you finely slice a handful of mint leaves.
With this reasonably small amount of liquid, the butter and wine should form a fantastically simple sauce.
Throw in the mint at the last minute and serve straight away.
Don't forget that it only takes a handful of grated Parmesan cheese and some cooked tagliatelle to turn these peas into a wonderful pasta dish.
Or you can add them to a risotto, or whiz them up with some chicken stock to make a fine pea soup.
You'll need a selection of freshly picked lettuces such as round lettuce, oak leaf lettuce, lamb's lettuce, watercress, cos lettuce, little gem lettuce, chicory and radicchio (about 4 large handfuls).
You'll also need a jam jar dressing of your choice.To wash your salad leaves:

When you get your lettuces home, remove the roots and any not-so-nice outside leaves first, then click or tear off the rest of the leaves and give them a good old wash in cold water.
Once they’re clean, give them a spin in a salad spinner or shake them dry in a tea towel.
To store your salad leaves:

If you line a salad crisper drawer in your refrigerator with a couple of clean kitchen towels and lay your leaves on top, covering them with another towel, they’ll keep there happily for 4 days.
This way you can simply make up your own mixed salads, dressing the leaves with one of my jam jar dressings.
To dress your salad leaves:

Pour the dressing from a height and gently toss the leaves, using the tips of your fingers, until every single leaf is coated.
Wash the lentils, then place them in a pan and cover with cold water.
Bring to the boil and simmer gently for 15 to 20 minutes, or until tender.
Meanwhile, blitz all the vegetables, garlic and ginger in a food processor until finely chopped.Heat enough oil to cover the bottom of a large saucepan, put it on a low heat, add the spices and fry gently for a couple of minutes.
Then add the onions, carrots, pepper, garlic, ginger, coriander stalks, the chilli and all the spices and fry gently for 5-10 minutes until the onions start to soften.
Add the tomatoes, water and lentils and simmer for another 30 minutes before adding the coconut milk.
Bring to the boil then remove from the heat and blend until smooth using a hand blender.
Season to taste.
Set aside to cool then use as required.Tip
Any surplus sauce can be frozen to use at a later date.
This recipe is from School Dinners.
First make your batter.
Smash up the cumin and mustard seeds, chillies and peppercorns in a pestle and mortar until you have a powder.
Put the flour into a mixing bowl and stir in the ground spices and the turmeric.Pour in most of the beer and whisk gently.
Check the consistency – you want it to be the thickness of double cream.
If it’s too thick, whisk in the rest of the beer.
Don’t worry too much about having little lumps in the batter, as they’ll just become nice crunchy bits when you start frying.
Season with sea salt and put to one side.Trim the bottom off the stalk and break the cauliflower into bite-sized florets.
Slice up the stalk into 2 centimetres pieces – this way it will all cook at the same rate.
Place the cauliflower pieces in a bowl and dust with a little flour.Pour the oil into a deep saucepan – you want it to be about 10–12 centimetres deep – and heat it to 180°C.
If you don’t have a thermometer don't worry, just drop a piece of potato into the oil.
When it floats to the surface and starts to sizzle, the oil will be at the right temperature so remove the potato from the pan.Shake any excess flour off the cauliflower.
One by one, dip the pieces into the beer batter, then carefully place them in the hot oil, moving them away from you as you do so.
Make sure you stand back so you don’t get splashed.
It’s best to fry them in batches so you don’t overcrowd the pan (but serve them as soon as each batch is ready).Each time a batch of cauliflower is nearly ready, add some battered parsley leaves to the pan and fry for 40 seconds (you want to serve them scattered over the fritters).
Fry the pieces gently, turning them a couple of times with a slotted spoon.
When they’re browned and crisp, lift them out of the oil, allowing any excess to drip back into the pan, and drain on kitchen paper.
Dust with sea salt and squeeze over a little lemon juice.
Make the dressing by squeezing the lemon juice into a clean jam jar, topping up with 10 tablespoons of oil, and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
Secure the lid on the jar, give it a good shake, and put aside until needed.Peel and slice the pears and beets into fine matchsticks – if your knife skills aren’t up to speed yet, use a matchstick peeler, mandolin (use the guard!) or box grater.Dress the matchsticks in a little of the lemon oil dressing (keep the rest in the fridge for another day) – taste to check that the flavours are balanced, then adjust the seasoning, if needed.Divide the salad between plates or place on a serving platter, then crumble over the creamy feta.Pick and roughly chop the mint leaves, then sprinkle over the salad with the sunflower seeds (if using).
This is a fantastic and really unusual salad that was inspired by a friend of mine called Das who runs the most terrific Indian restaurants in London, called Rasa.
Although I have called it ‘Keralan’, it isn't really a true salad from there as you'd never find cress in Kerala!
In Rasa, Das uses a lot of fresh coconut – which really is one of the most incredible flavours for making dishes like curries, or mixed into rice, breads, desserts and salads.
You can now buy coconuts from most supermarkets, but if you can't find one, feel free to make this salad without it – it will still be pretty good but it won't have that special edge to it.
Only make this when the mangoes are silky smooth and not at all stringy.
You should be able to cut through them like butter.
First of all you need to crack open the shell of the coconut.
I normally do this by placing it on a tea towel on a hard surface and then giving it a wallop with a rolling-pin or a hammer.
Once you've cracked it open you can pull it apart (being careful not to spill the milk everywhere!), discarding the hard outer shell.
The dark skin on the outside of the coconut's flesh doesn't bother me, especially if I'm grating it.
But if you want to remove it, a speed peeler works quite well.Once you've got into your coconut, cut the peppers into quarters, remove the stalks and seeds, then finely slice.
Trim your cress directly from its punnet (the easiest way to do this is to take the cress out of the punnet, wash the leafy end and stalks under a tap, then slice the stalk end off and discard it).
Trim your spring onions and finely slice them.
Cut the mango flesh off the stones and finely slice it (there is a knack to doing this properly – if you look at the shape of the mango, the flat stone always lies the same way, parallel with the flattest sides, so you should be able to slice the flesh off with not too much wastage).
Get your pieces of coconut and grate them finely.
Put all these ingredients into a large salad bowl.Lime and ginger work together really well in the dressing.
Finely grate the ginger and lime zest into a small bowl, then add the lime juice and olive oil.
Season to taste, and add more oil as necessary to balance the flavours of your dressing.
Limes can be different strengths depending on their juiciness and size.Dress the salad just before serving, saving any extra dressing for another day, and eat straight away.
Great just as it is, or with some grilled prawns or satay chicken.
Also lovely as a snack inside a wrap or flatbread.
So even though the coconut may be a pain to prepare it's well worth it...
Take 3 large handfuls of cavolo nero, cabbage or Swiss chard and strip the leaves off the stalks.
Add 3 cloves of peeled garlic to a pan of salted water and bring to the boil, then add the cavolo.
Cook until tender, then drain well in a colander and allow to cool.
Squeeze out any excess water from the cavolo, mush up the garlic, season to taste with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper and drizzle with extra virgin olive oil.
Toss around and divide on to each of your hot crostini, drizzled with more olive oil and a squeeze of lemon juice.See my crostini recipe
Get yourself about 20 ripe cherry tomatoes, different colours if possible, and cut them into quarters.
Remove the stones from a handful of good-quality black or green olives and chop them up.
Toss in a bowl with the tomatoes, 2 or 3 lugs of extra virgin olive oil and a swig of balsamic vinegar, and season carefully with salt and pepper and a little crumbled dried chilli.
(Some olives are salty, so go easy.)
Spoon over each of your hot crostini recipe.
In a pestle and mortar or a food processor, smash up a small handful of mint leaves with 2 good handfuls of freshly podded peas and broad beans until they look like mushy peas.
Add a large handful of freshly grated pecorino or Parmesan, then loosen with a couple of good lugs of extra virgin olive oil and balance the flavours with a little lemon juice, salt&lt; and pepper.
Smear this over each of your hot crostini recipe.
Get any mixture of soft herbs like fennel tops, green or purple basil, parsley, mint, chervil, thyme tips or sorrel and roughly chop them.
Take 6 cherry tomatoes and halve them, then rub one of the halves into each of your hot crostini.
Grate some pecorino or Parmesan over the top and season with salt and pepper.
Drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle over your chopped herbs.See my crostini recipe.
Tear 3 by 150g balls of buffalo mozzarella into quarters, then top each of your hot crostini with one of the quarters.
Deseed and finely chop a fresh red chilli and sprinkle this over the mozzarella.
Add a little seasoning and finish with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
Lovely with a little fresh basil torn over.See my crostini recipe.
These tasty, crispy tortillas with guacamole are superb for snacking on while you're watching telly.
It's all quick and easy to rustle up.Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Meanwhile, remove and discard the seeds from the chillies, squeeze the juice from the limes, peel the avocados, remove the stone and chop them and roughly chop the fresh coriander.
 To make the guacamole, mash or blend the chillies, lime juice, avocado and coriander until creamy but a bit chunky.
Season with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper, and pour into a serving dish.
Brush the tortillas with the oil, season, and then sprinkle with the thyme leaves.
Lay them on a baking tray – don't overlap them too much – and bake for 5 minutes until golden brown, then leave them to cool.
Break into wedges if you like, and serve the crispy tortillas with the guacamole.
Put all your ingredients into a jam jar with some sea salt and black pepper.
Shake, taste and season again if needed until your dressing is perfect.
You may need to add a little more vinegar or oil to balance it.
Chop the tips off your asparagus and put these to one side for later.
Roughly chop the asparagus stalks.Get a large, deep pan on the heat and pour in a good lug of olive oil.
Gently fry the onions, celery and leeks for around 10 minutes, or until soft and sweet, without colouring.Add the chopped asparagus stalks and stock and simmer for 20 minutes with a lid on.
Remove from the heat and blitz with a hand-held blender or in a liquidizer.
Season the soup bit by bit (this is important) with salt and pepper until just right.Put the soup back on the heat, stir in the asparagus tips, bring back to the boil and simmer for a few more minutes, or until the tips have softened.Just before I’m ready to serve the soup, I get a wide casserole-type pan on the heat with 8 to 10 centimetres of boiling water.
Using really fresh eggs, I very quickly crack all 10 into the water.
Don’t worry about poaching so many at the same time.
They don’t have to look perfect.
A couple of minutes and they’ll be done, as you want them to be a bit runny.Toast your ciabatta slices.
Using a slotted spoon, remove all the poached eggs to a plate and add a knob of butter to them.
To serve, divide the soup between eight warmed bowls and place a piece of toast into each.
Put a poached egg on top, cut into it to make it runny, season and drizzle with extra virgin olive oil.
This is quite an unusual salad and terribly simple to make.
It's great because it's a nice little side dish that will go with things like mozzarella, goat's cheese, cured meats, grilled or barbecued white fish like cod or haddock, even things like chicken or pork.
Use courgettes when at their best (nice and firm and not too big).Slice 4 courgettes lengthways as thin as you can (use a mandolin if you have one).
Grill on a red-hot griddle pan, or on the barbecue, until lightly charred on each side.
Scatter the slices over a large plate, making sure you don't sit them on top of each other otherwise they'll steam and go a bit limp, and there's nothing worse than limp courgettes, I can tell you.
While they're still warmish, sprinkle them with a little sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.Deseed a red chilli and chop finely.
Finely chop ½ a clove of garlic and sprinkle the chilli and garlic evenly from a height over the courgettes.
(Add to your own taste, but just remember that when the chilli and garlic mix with the olive oil and lemon juice the heat and flavours are lessened.)Tear over a handful of fresh mint and drizzle with good extra virgin olive oil and a squeeze of lemon.
I've even been known to throw in some blanched broad beans or raw peas if I can get any.
This salad is always a real treat.P.S.
If you find yourself with leftovers, try baking any fish fillets (cod, haddock or bass for example) on top of the courgettes.
Lovely with steamed rice and seasoned yoghurt.
Very fresh and good for you.
Pull the leaves from the celery stalks and set them aside.
Chop your celery and onion.
Heat the olive oil in a medium saucepan over a medium heat.
Add the celery (not the leaves), onion, and thyme.
Stir until the vegetables start to brown.
Sprinkle the flour over the veggies and stir for a few more minutes.
Pour in the milk, add the potato and bring to a boil, stirring the whole time so the soup doesn’t stick to the pot.
Cook until the potatoes are tender, but not mushy – this will take around 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, chop the celery leaves, trim the ends off the spring onions and slice them thinly.
When the potatoes are tender, stir in the corn, spring onion and celery leaves.
Bring the soup back to the boil, then serve.
This is delicious with a crusty brown roll or a Parmesan crisp.
 Beans are magical little things and massively underrated.
I’m showing them some love by pairing them with exciting Mexican flavours.
Baked in a tortilla with veg and cheese until golden on the outside, but oozy on the inside, it’s a real texture extravaganza.
Beans are an amazing veggie source of protein and are packed with fibre, which will keep you nice and full.
They also count as one of your 5-a-day, so this recipe clocks up up two of your 5-a-day!
Use any leftover beans and tomatoes to make some homemade baked beans – add a pinch of paprika for a smoky kick.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or  gas 4.
Peel and finely slice the onion, then deseed and slice up the pepper.
Coarsely grate the cheese.Heat a little oil in a frying pan over a medium-low heat and gently fry the onion for 10 minutes, or until softened.Peel and crush the garlic, then add to the pan along with the chilli powder.Add the tomato purée and the tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon as you go, then drain and add the kidney beans.Cook for 10 minutes, or until slightly reduced, then season to taste with sea salt and black pepper.In a separate pan, fry the pepper in a little oil until starting to soften, then set aside.Divide the filling mixture in half, then blitz one half with a stick blender to form a bean paste – if you don’t have a stick blender, mash with a potato masher.Spread the tortillas with the warm bean paste, then add a serving spoon of the filling and sprinkle with cheese.
Roll up the tortillas and place on greased baking tins.Bake for 5 to 10 minutes, or until golden and warmed through.Dress the salad leaves in a little oil and vinegar, then serve alongside your bean wraps.
This dish is only as good as the vegetables you buy, so use that as your starting point and you'll be on to an absolute winner!
Here are some tips on buying and preparing a selection of veg...In most supermarkets these days you can get fresh baby carrots with their green tops.
Leave about an inch of the tops on and just give the carrots a scrub.Do the same with some lovely radishes.
You can get some marbled pink and white oval ones now, which are crunchy and peppery.
Again, leave the tops on as these make good handles when it comes to dipping.Use nice crunchy lettuces.
Sweeter lettuces like cos and romaine are good for dipping – I try to use the inner part, keeping the outer leaves for another salad.
I leave the stalk on and then cut the lettuce into quarters, and that way they stay in one piece, but you don't have to do this.
The important thing is to get good chunks of vegetables.
I like to contrast the sweet lettuces with slightly more bitter ones like radicchio or endive.If you've got some young asparagus that's just come into season, it's really nice eaten raw.
Feel free to use your imagination on the veggie side.
Little fingers of celery or celeriac are also good.
However, you often come across people who use raw cauliflower with dips – I personally would prefer colonic irrigation!
I think cauliflower and broccoli are just awful eaten raw, so I wouldn't suggest using them here.Put the yoghurt in a food processor, pick in the mint leaves and whiz up for half a minute or so.
Add the peas and the Parmesan, and whiz again – the peas will break down and the yoghurt will become green.
Put the dip in a bowl, correcting the seasoning with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and a good squeeze of lemon juice.
When you add the lemon juice and peas to the yoghurt, quite often it splits and turns into a kind of cheese, but this is absolutely fine.
It depends on the type of yoghurt you use and how acidic your lemon is.
Just pour away any excess water.
Usually, though, it doesn't split and is more like a purée, but both ways are good.Serve your veggies on a big board or in a big bowl next to the dip.
And have some salt and pepper to hand in case you need it.
It's a good sociable way to start a meal.
Boil the peas until perfect, then remove from the heat and drain in a colander, saving a small cup of the cooking water.
Put the peas back in the pan with some of the reserved water and add a splash of olive oil.
Stir around, then sprinkle in the Parmesan cheese and stir again until every single pea is lightly coated in the sweet, delicately melted cheese.
You may need to add a bit more water to loosen the peas – you want them to be oozy (almost like a risotto consistency).
A small squeeze of lemon juice always lifts the peas and cuts through the cheese, and a sprinkle of white pepper is nice too.This dish is best made quickly at the very last minute as, like a risotto, the moment those peas begin to cool down, things start getting a little claggy and rubbery and you definitely don’t want that.
If you want your chutney to last for a while, make sure you have some small sterilised jars ready to go.Place your chillies and peppers over a hot barbecue, in a griddle pan or on a tray under a hot grill, turning them now and then until blackened and blistered all over.Carefully lift the hot peppers and chillies into a bowl (the smaller chillies won’t take as long as the peppers so remove them first) and cover tightly with cling film.
As they cool down, they’ll cook gently in their own steam.
By the time they’re cool enough to handle, you’ll be able to peel the skin off easily.
When you’ve got rid of most of the skin, trimmed off the stalks and scooped out the seeds, you’ll be left with a pile of nice tasty peppers and chillies.
Finely chop by hand or put in a food processor and whiz up.
Then put to one side.Heat a saucepan and pour in a splash of olive oil.
Add the onions, rosemary, bay leaves and cinnamon and season with a little sea salt and black pepper.
Cook very slowly for about 20 minutes, or until the onions become rich, golden and sticky.Add the chopped peppers and chillies, the sugar and the vinegar to the onions and keep cooking.
When the liquid reduces and you’re left with a lovely thick sticky chutney, season well to taste.Remove the cinnamon stick and the bay leaves.
Either spoon into the sterilised jars and put them in a cool dark place, or keep in the fridge and use right away.
In sterilised jars, the chutney should keep for a couple of months.
Heat a large frying pan over a medium heat and add a good few lugs of olive oil.
When the oil’s hot, add the garlic and chilli and fry until lightly coloured.
Drop in most of the basil – stand back as it will crackle and spit in the oil – and then, after a few seconds, add the tomatoes.
Bring to the boil and simmer for about 5 minutes.
You’ll end up with a chunky sauce – if you like it smoother, pass the sauce through a coarse sieve.
Taste the sauce and season with salt and pepper.
Keep warm.
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil.
On a lightly floured work surface, cut the lasagne sheets into strips with a knife or a pastry wheel.
When the water is at a rolling boil, add the pasta and cook for a few minutes until just al dente.
Drain the pasta strips in a colander, reserving a little of the cooking water.
Stir the pasta into the warm sauce.
If it’s a bit thick, add a few spoonfuls of the cooking water to loosen it up.
Sprinkle with freshly grated Parmesan cheese and the reserved basil leaves and serve immediately.
Mix the beaten egg with the milk and a dash of limoncello in a shallow dish.
Dip the bread slices into the mixture and shake off the excess.
Sprinkle the slices with the caster sugar, then cook on the barbecue for a couple of minutes on each side until golden.Dust the strawberries with caster sugar and grill them really quickly, just until the sugar on the outside browns.Top the warm bread with ricotta and the grilled strawberries.
Drizzle with honey and decorate with lemon zest.
The first time I ever made this was at the Neal Street Restaurant, and about two years later, when I was at the River Café, Rose Gray showed me her way of doing it.
She inspired me to think of grilling as a really exciting way to prepare vegetables.Wash all your vegetables.
Heat the barbecue or a griddle pan, put your whole peppers on it, and get them really black on all sides.
While still hot, put them in a bowl, cover with cling film and leave to cool.Slice your courgettes lengthways about 0.5 centimetres thick and do the same with your fennel, reserving the herby tops.
Grill the courgette and fennel together on the griddle pan for about a minute on each side or until nicely charred.
You don’t want them too black or too raw.
Transfer to a clean tea towel in one layer, making sure they don’t sit on top of each other, otherwise they will steam and go soggy.Cut the aubergine across into slices one centimetre inch thick.
Every now and again you get an aubergine that is really seedy — if this happens, it will be bitter and no good, so throw it away and get yourself another one.
Chargrill the aubergine slices, turning them 4 times until nicely marked, then transfer to the tea towel.Boil the baby leeks in salted water until they’re just cooked.
Then drain, rub with a little olive oil, and chargrill them quickly until lightly marked.
Peel the peppers but don’t hold them under the tap as all the sweet fantastic flavour will go down the drain.
Carefully rub off the black skin, then remove the stalk and pips and tear the peppers up into large strips.
Now put all the vegetables into a large bowl.Take about a quarter of your basil leaves and bash them in a pestle and mortar with a good pinch of seasoning until you have a smooth pulp.
Add about 8 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil and the vinegar, to taste.
Pour this over the vegetables and toss quickly so that everything gets coated in the lovely basil oil, then throw in the remaining whole basil leaves.
Slice the garlic really thinly to give you a delicate flavour and add to the bowl with the fennel tops.
Mix everything together, and serve on a large plate at room temperature.
Great with any grilled fish or meat, or as part of an antipasti plate with some toasted bruschetta and some fresh buffalo mozzarella.
This is a deliciously indulgent veggie side that's super quick to get in the oven and absolutely brilliant served with just about any meat or white fish, like cod or haddock.


Preheat your oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Place the potatoes, celeriac and onion in an earthenware-type baking dish.
Season generously.
Add the garlic, ¾ of the cheese, the cream and the parsley stalks.
With a spoon, move everything around to mix all the flavours.
Sprinkle over the extra cheese, and bake in the preheated oven for 50 minutes, or until tender and golden.
Sprinkle over the parsley leaves.I like to leave the gratin in the dish, pop it in the middle of the table and tuck in!
Wash the thyme stalks in hot water for 20 seconds.
When cool enough to handle, strip the leaves off the stalk.
In a food processor, whiz the thyme leaves, the cumin seeds and orange zest together with the butter.
Lay out a 30 centimetres square piece of greaseproof paper on a work surface and scoop the butter on to the middle.
Roll one edge up over the butter as if you were trying to fold the paper in half, and with your hands shape the butter into a cylinder shape as best you can.
Wrap the butter up in the paper, twist the ends so the package looks like a Christmas cracker and place in the fridge to set.Steam the carrots for 10 minutes and, once cooked, toss in a warm bowl with some slices of the thyme, cumin and orange butter.
First of all, slice the carrots or cut them up into fine ribbons, matchsticks or batons.
Put them into a salad bowl with the coriander leaves and the sesame or poppy seeds.
To make the dressing, finely grate the zest of the orange into a bowl.
Add the orange juice, the juice of 1½ lemons and about 4 times that amount of extra virgin olive oil.
Pound your toasted sesame seeds to a pulp in a pestle and mortar, then add to the dressing.
Mix well, then season to taste with salt, pepper and possibly more lemon juice to make it nice and zingy so that you can taste it once you've dressed the salad.
Once the salad is dressed, the flavour of the lemon will lessen, so get eating straight away.
Place the peppers directly onto a naked gas flame or under a very hot grill and let them blacken and blister.
Turn now and then with a pair of metal kitchen tongs.
When blackened all over, pop them into a bowl and cover with clingfilm.
Leave the peppers to steam for about 10 minutes, then remove the clingfilm and leave them to cool.
When they are cool enough to handle, rub off the blackened skin and brush away the seeds from the inside.
Tear the mozzarella balls into chunks and divide between 4 plates.
Tear the peppers into strips and divide over the plates of mozzarella.
Halve the tomatoes and scatter over the top.
Season well with sea salt and black pepper and drizzle with olive oil.
Pick and tear up the basil leaves and sprinkle them over the salad before serving.
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Peel and finely slice the garlic, then pick the basil leaves, finely slicing the stalks.Prick the cherry tomatoes and place in a roasting tray, scatter over one of the sliced garlic cloves and a quarter of the basil leaves.
Drizzle with extra virgin olive oil, sprinkle with sea salt and black pepper, toss to coat, then roast for 20 minutes to intensify the flavour.Meanwhile, heat a lug of oil in a large pan, add the remaining garlic and the basil stalks and fry for 1 minute, or until softened.
Tip in the tinned tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon, then add 1 tin's worth of water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer for 15 minutes.Tear in the bread up, mix well and season to taste.
Tear in most of the remaining basil leaves and let the soup sit on a low heat for 10 minutes.
By this time the roasted tomatoes will be done, with juice bursting out of their skins, so add them to the pan, remembering to scrape all the lovely juices and sticky bits from the bottom of the tray.
Give the soup a good stir – you're looking to achieve a thick, silky, porridgey texture, so feel free to adjust it with a little water, if needed.
Remove from the heat, add 6 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and divide between your bowls.
Serve with the remaining basil torn over the top.Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.Peel and finely slice the garlic, then pick the basil leaves, finely slicing the stalks.Prick the cherry tomatoes and place in a roasting tray, scatter over one of the sliced garlic cloves and a quarter of the basil leaves.
Drizzle with extra virgin olive oil, sprinkle with sea salt and black pepper, toss to coat, then roast for 20 minutes to intensify the flavour.Meanwhile, heat a lug of oil in a large pan, add the remaining garlic and the basil stalks and fry for 1 minute, or until softened.
Tip in the tinned tomatoes, breaking them up with a spoon, then add 1 tin's worth of water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce to a simmer for 15 minutes.Tear in the bread up, mix well and season to taste.
Tear in most of the remaining basil leaves and let the soup sit on a low heat for 10 minutes.
By this time the roasted tomatoes will be done, with juice bursting out of their skins, so add them to the pan, remembering to scrape all the lovely juices and sticky bits from the bottom of the tray.
Give the soup a good stir – you're looking to achieve a thick, silky, porridgey texture, so feel free to adjust it with a little water, if needed.
Remove from the heat, add 6 tablespoons of extra virgin olive oil, and divide between your bowls.
Serve with the remaining basil torn over the top.
Slowly heat the butter and a good lug of olive oil in a pan.
Add the flour and stir around, then slowly pour in the stock.
Turn up the heat and add the spring onions, peas and lettuce with a pinch of salt and pepper.
Put the lid on and simmer for 5 minutes or until tender.
Taste, correct the seasoning and squeeze in a little lemon juice.
Serve drizzled with a splash of good oil.
It’s fantastic served with a piece of fish.
Half fill a large pot with salted water, bring to the boil and add your silverbeet and chicory.
Cook for 2 or 3 minutes until the greens are tender, or al dente, then drain in a colander.
To your empty pan add 4 large lugs of olive oil and the garlic.
Fry the garlic until lightly coloured, then throw in your cooked chicory and silverbeet.
Season and stir around to coat in all the lovely flavoured oil.
After 1 minute, remove from the heat, add the rocket and squeeze in the lemon juice.
Stir once more, check the seasoning again, and serve immediately.
Great with grilled meats or scallops, or even served cold on an antipasti plate.
Squeeze the lemon juice into a clean jam jar.
Add three times the amount of extra virgin olive oil, season with salt and pepper, then screw the lid on and shake to emulsify.Add the rocket, watercress, pea shoots, apples, beetroot and beetroot leaves, if you have them, to a large bowl.
Drizzle over enough dressing to completely coat the ingredients, add the marjoram, toss again and serve.
Roughly slice the roasted fennel, pick and finely chop the basil, reserving a few baby leaves for garnish, and deseed and finely chop the chilli.Place a griddle pan on a high heat and toast the bread.Meanwhile, place the fennel in a bowl with the chopped basil leaves and most of the chilli.
Squeeze in the lemon juice, add a good drizzle of extra virgin olive oil, a pinch of sea salt and black pepper and a few shavings of Parmesan, then toss everything together.
Have a quick taste and add a bit more lemon juice, salt or pepper, if needed.When the bread is nice and charred, halve the unpeeled garlic clove and rub the cut side all over both sides.Drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil, then top with a small handful of the fennel mixture.
Tear the mozzarella into quarters and place one on each bruschetta, then top with some thin shavings of Parmesan, a few little sprinkles of chilli and the reserved basil.
For the dough, pile the flours and 1 level teaspoon of sea salt onto a clean surface and make a well in the centre.Add the yeast and sugar to 650 millimetres lukewarm water, mix together and leave for a few minutes, then pour into the well.Using a fork and a circular movement, slowly bring in the flour from the inner edge of the well and mix into the water.
Continue to mix, bringing in all the flour – when the dough comes together and becomes too hard to mix with your fork, flour your hands and begin to pat it into a ball.Knead the dough by rolling it backwards and forwards, using your hands to stretch, pull and push the dough.
Keep kneading for 10 minutes, or until you have a smooth, springy, soft dough.Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover with clingfilm and leave in a warm place to to prove for 45 minutes, or until doubled in size.For the sauce, peel and finely slice the garlic, then pick the basil leaves and finely chop the stalks.Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a pan on a medium-low heat, add the garlic and basil stalks, then cook gently for a couple of minutes, or until the garlic is lightly golden, then add most of the basil leaves, the tomatoes, and a pinch of salt and pepper.Leave the sauce to tick away for around 20 minutes, or until smooth, breaking up the tomatoes up with a wooden spoon.
When the time’s up, taste, and season to perfection.To assemble the pizzas, divide the dough in half.
Wrap one half in clingfilm and freeze for another day.
With the remaining half, divide the dough into 4 equal balls.Flour each dough ball, then cover with clingfilm, and leave to rest for about 15 minutes – this will make them easier to roll it thinly.Dust a clean surface and the dough with a little flour or semolina, and roll it out into a rough circle, about ½cm thick.Tear off an appropriately sized piece of tin foil, rub it with olive oil, dust well with flour or semolina and place the pizza base on top.
Continue doing the same with the remaining dough, dust with a little flour so you can pile them up.
Cover with clingfilm and place in the fridge.When you're ready to cook them, preheat the oven to 250 Celsius or 500 Fahrenheit or gas 9.At this stage you can apply your topping:
spread the tomato sauce over the base, spreading it out to the edges.
Tear over the mozzarella and scatter with the remaining basil leaves.
Drizzle with a tiny bit of olive oil and add a pinch of salt and pepper.
If you can, cook the pizzas on a piece of granite in your conventional oven – if not, cook them one by one on pieces of tin foil directly on the bars of the oven shelf, towards the bottom of the oven (If you're going to cook your pizzas on the bars of the oven, make sure they're not too big – otherwise they'll be difficult to manoeuvre).
Cook for 7 to 10 minutes, until the pizzas are golden and crispy.Here are some of my favourite topping ideas:
Mozzarella, anchovies, chilli, capers and parsley
Smoked pancetta, mozzarella, fresh chilli and tomatoes
Egg, prosciutto, artichokes, olives, mozzarella, tomato sauce and basil
Green and red grapes, rosemary, pine nuts and ricotta
Potatoes, mozzarella, rosemary, thyme and tomatoes
Slow-roasted shredded pork with thyme, Taleggio and lemon-dressed rocket
Stage 1:
making a well
Pile the flour on to a clean surface and make a large well in the centre.
Pour half your water into the well, then add your yeast, sugar and salt and stir with a fork.Stage 2:
getting it together
Slowly, but confidently, bring in the flour from the inside of the well.
(You don't want to break the walls of the well, or the water will go everywhere.)
Continue to bring the flour in to the centre until you get a stodgy, porridgey consistency – then add the remaining water.
Continue to mix until it's stodgy again, then you can be more aggressive, bringing in all the flour, making the mix less sticky.
Flour your hands and pat and push the dough together with all the remaining flour.
(Certain flours need a little more or less water, so feel free to adjust.)Stage 3:
kneading!
This is where you get stuck in.
With a bit of elbow grease, simply push, fold, slap and roll the dough around, over and over, for 4 or 5 minutes until you have a silky and elastic dough.Stage 4:
first prove
Flour the top of your dough.
Put it in a bowl, cover with cling film, and allow it to prove for about half an hour until doubled in size – ideally in a warm, moist, draught-free place.
This will improve the flavour and texture of your dough and it's always exciting to know that the old yeast has kicked into action.Stage 5:
second prove, flavouring and shaping
Once the dough has doubled in size, knock the air out for 30 seconds by bashing it and squashing it.
You can now shape it or flavour it as required – folded, filled, tray-baked, whatever – and leave it to prove for a second time for 30 minutes to an hour until it has doubled in size once more.
This is the most important part, as the second prove will give it the air that finally ends up being cooked into your bread, giving you the really light, soft texture that we all love in fresh bread.
So remember – don't fiddle with it, just let it do its thing.Stage 6:
cooking your bread
Preheat the oven to 180 Celsius or 350 Fahrenheit or gas 4.
Very gently place your bread dough on to a flour-dusted baking tray and into the preheated oven.
 Don't slam the door or you'll lose the air that you need.
Bake for 25-30 minutes or until cooked and golden brown.
You can tell if it's cooked by tapping its bottom – if it sounds hollow it's done, if it doesn't then pop it back in for a little longer.
Once cooked, place on a rack and allow it to cool for at least 30 minutes – fandabidozi.
Feel free to freeze any leftover bread.
Mix everything together in a bowl and season to taste.
Preheat the oven to 200 Celsius or 400 Fahrenheit or gas 6.
Rub each potato with a little olive oil, then place in a large baking dish.
Bake for 1 hour, or until the potatoes are golden and tender.
Set aside until cool enough to handle.
Leave the oven on.Cut the baked potatoes in half, then use a teaspoon to scoop out the middle into a bowl – leave a bit of potato around the edges so the baked potato keeps its shape.
Mash the potato with a fork.
Chop half the rocket, then add to the potato with the Gorgonzola.
Season with pepper (the Gorgonzola will provide the salt) and mix together.
Spoon back into the potato skins.Place the potato skins on a couple of baking trays and bake in the oven for 10 minutes, to warm through and melt the cheese.
Transfer to a serving plate and top with the remaining rocket dressed with extra virgin olive oil.
Add a little blob of chopped mustard fruit, if using.
Serve while still warm.
Preheat the oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.
Wash your potatoes and parboil until almost tender, then drain.
Pick and bash the rosemary leaves.Drizzle with just a little touch of oil and roll in a teaspoon of sea salt, a little freshly ground black pepper and the rosemary.
Put the potatoes in a roasting tray and cook in the oven for 25 minutes until golden.
Or, wrap them in tin-foil and throw them on the barbie for the same amount of time.
Start by preparing the artichokes:
peel them back to their pale, light leaves, then halve them and remove the hairy chokes with a teaspoon.
Place the prepped artichokes in a pan with just enough water to cover them.
Add the unpeeled garlic cloves and a little squeeze of lemon juice and cook until the stalks are tender.
Drain in a colander, then place the artichokes straight back into the empty pan with 2 or 3 tablespoons of olive oil and fry for 4 minutes to get a bit of colour on them.
When they're slightly golden, remove from the heat, squeeze in a little lemon juice, pick, roughly chop and add the mint leaves, then season carefully to taste with sea salt and black pepper.
Remove 4 artichoke halves from the pan and put to one side, then mash all the rest in the pan, using a fork to squash the garlic out of the skins (throw the skins away).
For the basic bruschette, cut the loaf in half, then slice it crossways, about one centimetre thick.
Chargrill these slices on a barbecue or in a griddle pan until they are crisp on both sides, then lightly rub each piece a couple of times with a cut clove of garlic.
Drizzle with some good extra virgin olive oil and sprinkle with a tiny pinch of sea salt.
Spread the mashed artichokes over the basic bruschette, tearing one of the reserved artichoke halves over the top of each.
Preheat a griddle pan or barbecue.Trim and slice the aubergines one centimetre thick.
Peel and finely chop the onion, and peel and finely slice the garlic.Place a large pan on a medium heat with 2 or 3 lugs of olive oil, add the onion, garlic and dried oregano, then cook for 10 minutes, or until the onion is soft and the garlic has a tiny bit of colour.
If you’re using tinned tomatoes, break them up, and if you’re using fresh tomatoes (which will obviously taste sweeter and more delicious, if they’re in season), very quickly prick each one and put them into a big pan of boiling water for 40 seconds.
Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and put them into a bowl of cold water for 30 seconds, then remove the skins, carefully squeeze out the pips and cut up the flesh.
Add the tomato flesh or tinned tomatoes to the onion pan, give the mixture a good stir, then put a lid on and simmer slowly for 15 minutes, or until thickened and reduced.
Grill the aubergines on both sides until lightly charred – you'll need to work in batches.Season the tomato sauce carefully with sea salt, black pepper and a tiny swig of wine vinegar, then pick in the basil.
You can leave the sauce chunky or you can purée it.Spoon a layer of tomato sauce into a 15 centimetres by 25 centimetres baking dish, then add a fine scattering of Parmesan, followed by a single layer of aubergines.
Repeat these layers until you’ve used all the ingredients up, finishing with a little sauce and another good sprinkling of Parmesan.
Pick and finely chop the oregano, then toss with the breadcrumbs and a little olive oil, then sprinkle on top of the Parmesan.
Tear over the mozzarella (if using).Bake at 190 Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit or gas 5 for 30 minutes, or until golden, crisp and bubbly – it’s best eaten straight away, but it can also be served cold.
Heat a griddle pan until nice and hot.
Lay your aubergine slices on it side by side and when they are nicely charred on both sides, put them into a bowl.
You will probably need to do this in several batches.
While the aubergines are grilling, put 8 tablespoons of olive oil and 3 tablespoons of vinegar, with the parsley, mint and garlic, into another bowl and season with salt and pepper.
When the aubergines are all done, add them to the dressing and mix around, then check the seasoning again and divide on to the bruschetta.
Press the topping into the toast so all the lovely flavour gets sucked in!

Peel the artichokes back to their pale, light leaves, then halve them and remove the hairy chokes with a teaspoon.
Immerse the artichokes in water with half the lemon juice, with a heavy lid or heat-resistant dish placed on top of them to keep them immersed and stop them discolouring.Start your risotto bianco and when you begin stage 3, drop 6 of your prepared artichoke halves into the simmering stock.
Continue cooking the risotto, adding the stock a ladleful at a time until the rice is half-cooked.
Slice the remaining artichoke halves very finely and stir into the risotto.
Continue stirring the stock into the rice.
At stage 4, when the rice is cooked and you have added the butter and Parmesan, stir in the rest of the lemon juice.
Take the pan off the heat and check the seasoning.Pick and tear up the mint leaves.
Remove the cooked artichokes from the stock pan and toss with most of the lemon zest, the torn-up mint leaves and a splash of olive oil.
Spoon the risotto onto 4 plates and place the dressed artichokes on top.
Drizzle with any remaining dressing from the bowl and serve sprinkled with extra Parmesan and the rest of the lemon zest.
First make your basic risotto recipe, then put a large saucepan on a medium to high heat and pour in half the stock, followed by all your risotto base.
Stirring all the time, gently bring to the boil, then turn the heat down and simmer until almost all the stock has been absorbed.
Add the rest of the stock a ladleful at a time until the rice is cooked.
You might not need all your stock.
Be careful not to overcook the rice – check it throughout cooking to make sure it’s a pleasure to eat.
It should hold its shape but be soft, creamy and oozy.
And the overall texture should be slightly looser than you think you want it.Turn off the heat, beat in your butter, Parmesan, gorgonzola, goat’s cheese, chopped apple and marjoram.
Check the seasoning and add salt and pepper if needed.
Put a lid on the pan and leave the risotto to rest for a minute so the cheese can really ooze into it.
While you’re waiting, gently heat the walnuts in a pan.
Then either take the risotto to the table and let everyone help themselves, or divide it between individual serving plates.
Put a block of Parmesan on the table for grating over.
Sprinkle with the walnuts and drizzle with a little extra virgin olive oil before tucking in.
Heat a griddle pan until it’s really smoking hot, then griddle each slice of ciabatta for a couple of minutes on each side until they are nicely charred.
Cut the garlic clove in half, rub each ciabatta slice with garlic and drizzle with a little olive oil.
Tear the mozzarella evenly over the 8 crostini.
Season well with salt and pepper, sprinkle over the sliced chilli and basil leaves and grate over the lemon zest.
Finish with another drizzle of olive oil.
Smash up the garlic with 1 teaspoon of salt in a pestle and mortar (or use the end of a rolling pin in a metal bowl).
Place the egg yolk and mustard in a bowl and whisk together, then start to add your oils bit by bit.
Once you’ve blended in a quarter of the oil, you can start to add the rest in larger amounts.
 When the mixture thickens, add lemon juice.
When all the oil has gone in, add the garlic and any extra flavours (see above).
To finish off, season to taste with salt, pepper and a bit more lemon juice, if needed.Try this:
Lemon -or basil- flavoured aioli is good with salads, all types of fish, and in seafood soups.
It's also great with roasted fish, chicken or pork, and is a classic with salmon.
Peel and finely slice the garlic.Get a large pan of salted water on the boil.
Melt the butter in a large ovenproof saucepan over a low heat, then add the flour and turn the heat up to medium, stirring all the time, until you get a paste – this is your roux.
Add all the sliced garlic – don’t worry about the amount because each slice will caramelise like toffee in the roux.
Keep cooking and stirring until golden and the garlic is nice and sticky.
Add the bay leaves and slowly whisk in the milk a little at a time to ensure you get a nice smooth sauce.
Bring the mixture to the boil, then leave it on a low heat to simmer and tick away, stirring occasionally.
Preheat your oven to 220 Celsius or 425 Fahrenheit or gas 7.Add the pasta to the pan of boiling salted water and cook according to the packet instructions.
Meanwhile, roughly chop the tomatoes on a board and season them well with sea salt and black pepper.
Grate the Cheddar and Parmesan.Drain the pasta and add it immediately to the sauce.
Give it a good stir and take the pan off the heat.
Stir in your grated cheeses, chopped tomatoes and pick in half of the thyme leaves.
A little Worcestershire sauce added now is nice, and so is a little grating or two of nutmeg.
Now work on the flavour – taste it and season it until it’s hitting the right spot.
You want it to be slightly too wet because it will thicken up again in the oven, so add a splash of water if needed.If you’ve made your sauce in an ovenproof casserole-type pan, leave everything in there; if not, transfer it to a deep earthenware dish.
Bake it for 30 minutes in the oven, until golden, bubbling, crispy and delicious.While it’s cooking, put your breadcrumbs and the rest of the the thyme leaves into a pan with a few drizzles of olive oil over a medium heat.
Stir and toss the crumbs around until crunchy and golden all over.
Remove from the heat and tip into a nice bowl.
Serve your macaroni cheese in the centre of the table, with your bowl of crispy breadcrumbs for sprinkling over, and a lovely green salad.
Heat the stock.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic, trim and finely chop the celery.
Finely grate the Parmesan.In a separate pan, heat the oil and 1 small knob of butter over a low heat, add the onions, garlic and celery, and fry gently for about 15 minutes, or until softened but not coloured.
Add the rice and turn up the heat – the rice will now begin to lightly fry, so keep stirring it.
After 1 minute it will look slightly translucent.
Add the vermouth or wine and keep stirring — it will smell fantastic.
Any harsh alcohol flavours will evaporate and leave the rice with a tasty essence.Once the vermouth or wine has cooked into the rice, add your first ladle of hot stock and a good pinch of sea salt.
Turn the heat down to a simmer so the rice doesn’t cook too quickly on the outside.
Keep adding ladlefuls of stock, stirring and almost massaging the creamy starch out of the rice, allowing each ladleful to be absorbed before adding the next.
This will take around 15 minutes.
Taste the rice — is it cooked?
Carry on adding stock until the rice is soft but with a slight bite.
Don’t forget to check the seasoning carefully.
If you run out of stock before the rice is cooked, add some boiling water.Remove the pan from the heat, add 1 knob of butter and the Parmesan, then stir well.
Place a lid on the pan and allow to sit for 2 minutes – this is the most important part of making the perfect risotto, as this is when it becomes outrageously creamy and oozy like it should be.
Eat it as soon as possible, while the risotto retains its beautiful texture.
Place the flour on a board or in a bowl.
Make a well in the centre and crack the eggs into it.
Beat the eggs with a fork until smooth.Using the tips of your fingers, mix the eggs with the flour, incorporating a little at a time, until everything is combined.
Knead the pieces of dough together – with a bit of work and some love and attention they’ll all bind together to give you one big, smooth lump of dough!
 You can also make your dough in a food processor if you’ve got one.
Just bung everything in, whiz until the flour looks like breadcrumbs, then tip the mixture on to your work surface and bring the dough together into one lump, using your hands.Once you’ve made your dough you need to knead and work it with your hands to develop the gluten in the flour, otherwise your pasta will be flabby and soft when you cook it, instead of springy and al dente.
There’s no secret to kneading.
You just have to bash the dough about a bit with your hands, squashing it into the table, reshaping it, pulling it, stretching it, squashing it again.
It’s quite hard work, and after a few minutes it’s easy to see why the average Italian grandmother has arms like Frank Bruno!
You’ll know when to stop – it’s when your pasta starts to feel smooth and silky instead of rough and floury.Then all you need to do is wrap it in cling film and put it in the fridge to rest for at least half an hour before you use it.
Make sure the cling film covers it well or it will dry out and go crusty round the edges (this will give you crusty lumps through your pasta when you roll it out, and nobody likes crusty lumps!).How to roll your pasta:
First of all, if you haven't got a pasta machine it's not the end of the world!
All the mammas I met while travelling round Italy rolled pasta with their trusty rolling pins and they wouldn't even consider having a pasta machine in the house!
When it comes to rolling, the main problem you'll have is getting the pasta thin enough to work with.
It's quite difficult to get a big lump of dough rolled out in one piece, and you need a very long rolling pin to do the job properly.
The way around this is to roll lots of small pieces of pasta rather than a few big ones.
You'll be rolling your pasta into a more circular shape than the long rectangular shapes you'll get from a machine, but use your head and you'll be all right!If using a machine to roll your pasta, make sure it's clamped firmly to a clean work surface before you start (use the longest available work surface you have).
If your surface is cluttered with bits of paper, the kettle, the bread bin, the kids' homework and stuff like that, shift all this out of the way for the time being.
It won't take a minute, and starting with a clear space to work in will make things much easier, I promise.Dust your work surface with some Tipo ‘00’ flour, take a lump of pasta dough the size of a large orange and press it out flat with your fingertips.
Set the pasta machine at its widest setting - and roll the lump of pasta dough through it.
Lightly dust the pasta with flour if it sticks at all.Click the machine down a setting and roll the pasta dough through again.
Fold the pasta in half, click the pasta machine back up to the widest setting and roll the dough through again.
Repeat this process five or six times.
It might seem like you're getting nowhere, but in fact you're working the dough, and once you've folded it and fed it through the rollers a few times, you'll feel the difference.
It'll be smooth as silk and this means you're making wicked pasta!Now it's time to roll the dough out properly, working it through all the settings on the machine, from the widest down to around the narrowest.
Lightly dust both sides of the pasta with a little flour every time you run it through.When you've got down to the narrowest setting, to give yourself a tidy sheet of pasta, fold the pasta in half lengthways, then in half again, then in half again once more until you've got a square-ish piece of dough.
Turn it 90 degrees and feed it through the machine at the widest setting.
As you roll it down through the settings for the last time, you should end up with a lovely rectangular silky sheet of dough with straight sides - just like a real pro!
If your dough is a little cracked at the edges, fold it in half just once, click the machine back two settings and feed it through again.
That should sort things out.Whether you're rolling by hand or by machine you'll need to know when to stop.
If you're making pasta like tagliatelle, lasagne or stracchi you'll need to roll the pasta down to between the thickness of a beer mat and a playing card; if you're making a stuffed pasta like ravioli or tortellini, you'll need to roll it down slightly thinner or to the point where you can clearly see your hand or lines of newsprint through it.
Once you've rolled your pasta the way you want it, you need to shape or cut it straight away.
Pasta dries much quicker than you think, so whatever recipe you're doing, don't leave it more than a minute or two before cutting or shaping it.
You can lay over a damp clean tea towel which will stop it from drying.
Start by making a temper.
Peel the garlic, then finely slice with the chillies, ideally 1mm thick on a mandolin (use the guard!).Pour 2 tablespoons of oil into a large wide pan on a medium heat and add the mustard seeds, cumin seeds and curry leaves for 1 minute, then the garlic and chillies.
Stir so everything’s flat, moving regularly until crisp and lightly golden.
With a slotted spoon, remove half the temper to a plate, taking the pan off the heat.Peel the onions and ginger and finely chop with the coriander stalks, then chop the squash into 2 centimetres cubes, leaving the skin on but discarding any seeds.
Stir it all into the pan and return to a medium heat for 15 minutes to soften.
Stir in the lentils, then 1.5 litres of boiling water.
Bring to the boil, then reduce to a gentle simmer and cover for 35 minutes, stirring occasionally.Mash the squash into the daal, taste and season to perfection.
Remove 6 portions, bag them up and, once completely cool, freeze for a rainy day when you’ll be really grateful it’s there, leaving the rest on a low heat to keep warm.
Blitz the coriander leaves, yoghurt, a pinch of sea salt and half the lime juice in a blender until smooth, then decant into a small bowl.
Reheat the reserved temper in a non-stick frying pan on a medium-low heat with 1 teaspoon of oil, then divide into two piles and crack an egg over each.
Cover and leave to slowly fry on the bottom for 2 or 3 minutes, while they coddle on top.
One-by-one, puff up your dry poppadoms in the microwave for around 30 seconds each.
Top each portion of daal with a fried egg, and pop some spinach, dressing, poppadoms and a lime wedge on the side.
First make the chutney.
Squeeze the lime juice into a food processor and blitz with all of the other chutney ingredients (removing the chilli stalk) until smooth, adding a little water to loosen if needs be.
Pour the chutney into a small bowl and chill in the fridge while you make your fritters.Place the gram flour, spices and mango powder in a large bowl and whisk in 150 millimetres to 180 millimetres of cold water until it forms a thin batter.Cut the aubergines into 3mm rounds.In a deep saucepan, pour in sunflower oil to a depth of at least 2.5 centimetres and bring it to 180ºC over a medium heat – test this with a thermometer, or drop in a cube of bread and when it bubbles immediately the oil is ready.Using metal tongs, dip each aubergine slice in the batter, shake off the excess, then slide it into the hot oil.
Do this in batches and cook them for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, or until golden and crisp.Carefully remove from the oil and leave to drain on kitchen paper, seasoning with sea salt while still hot.Drop the curry leaves into the oil and fry for 30 seconds, or until crisp (be careful as the oil will spit).
Serve the fritters with the crispy curry leaves on top, a squeeze of fresh lime, and the coriander chutney on the side.
